File: /usr2/fs/misc/fs10.0.0up.txt        Version: 10.0  Date: 200420

                     FS 10.0.0 Beta Update Notice


I. Introduction

This document is divided into five sections:

  I.   Introduction
  II.  Installation as an upgrade to a previous version
  III. Converting to a 64-bit system
  IV.  Changes from previous versions
  A.   Reference Appendix for Installation

This update is intended for all stations using the FS. This includes
both stations using the main (non-VGOS) branch (latest version 9.13.2)
and the VGOS branch (latest versions 9.12.10-9.12.13). Installing the
new version as update in either case is fairly simple.

The most significant changes in 10.0.0 are:

1. One unified version for all FS users

   Both non-VGOS and VGOS operations are supported by the new version.
   Previous users of the main (non-VGOS) branch will need to add some
   new local control files.

   The most significant change is that previous main branch users will
   find that in the new FS input is case sensitive, as it was already
   in the VGOS branch.

2. Support for use on both 32- and 64-bit systems.

   The new version should run on existing 32-bit systems that
   currently support the FS, as well as on 64-bit systems. The update
   notice includes instructions for transitioning to 64-bit systems,
   which may require some relatively simple changes to station
   software.

   A new FS Linux distribution, FSL10, is now available or will be
   shortly, for 64-bit (and 32-bit) use. We recommend using this
   distribution if you would like to move to using a 64-bit OS or need
   a 32-bit OS that is still under support (FSL9 is no longer under
   support). Release of FSL10 will occur separately.

3. Version control with 'git'.

   The FS source is now managed using 'git' and 'github' is used as
   the distribution method.

   The details of the model used for FS releases under 'git' are
   described in /usr2/fs/misc/release_model.txt. 

Very significant contributions, in fact essential, were made by Dave
Horsley (UTAS, Australia and GSFC) and Tetsuro Kondo (NICT, Japan and
SHAO, China). Kondo-san pioneered 64-bit support in the FS with his
64-bit implementations for Sejong and Ishioka stations. Dave built on
his work in developing a version that would support 32- and 64-bit
systems.

Dave also single-handedly imported the entire existent history of FS
source code into 'git'. This includes over 130 FS9 versions (under
Linux), 17 FS8 versions (under VENIX), and two older versions (under HP
RTE-1000/A) going back to version 5.5 in 1988.  Having the source code
in 'git' greatly simplified the task of merging the non-VGOS and VGOS
versions. Dave also did the most critical work on that and provided
excellent guidance on using 'git'. Having the historical code in 'git'
is a great resource for understanding the evolution of the code.

As always, we are deeply indebted to Jonathan Quick (HartRAO, South
Africa) for his many significant contributions that go far beyond what
is explicitly mentioned below. In this particular case, this includes
testing and insights for adapting the code for 64-bit use, patiently
solving various problems, developing FSL10, and working out support
for older FSL distributions, particularly FSL8.


II.  Installation as an upgrade to a previous version

Since this section is written as upgrade to an existing installation,
it is assumed that you are using a 32-bit system. However, only a few
things here are different for 64-bit systems. As result this section
is also in the instructions for converting to a 64-bit system, with
appropriate embedded information along the way. Please see section III
'Converting to a 64-bit system', for overall instructions for
converting to 64-bit.

An appendix A. 'Reference Appendix for Installation' is provided at
the end of this document.  It includes seven sub-sections:

 A.1. Upgrading from FS versions before the previous stable
 A.2. Example standard procedure libraries
 A.3. Cut-and-paste installation tips
 A.4. Making a back-up before installing
 A.5. Disk space requirements
 A.6. Set operations file permissions
 A.7. Fix '.prc' file 'define' lines

If you haven't upgraded or installed the FS before, you may want to
review the appendix.  It is STRONGLY recommended that you back-up your
operational system before upgrading.

There are two possible paths for upgrading: from a main branch
version or from a VGOS branch version. There are some general
considerations that depend on which branch you are updating from:

  1. Upgrading from a main branch version. The main branch versions
     are numbered 9.13.x and 9.11.x or older.  Specifically, versions
     9.12.x are not part of the main branch.  If you are upgrading
     from a main branch version, it is assumed that upgrade is from
     9.13.2, the previous stable release.  If you have a main branch
     version older than version 9.13.2 you should upgrade to 9.13.2
     first, please refer to appendix sub-section A.1. 'Upgrading from
     FS versions before the previous stable', for more information.

  2. Upgrading from a VGOS branch version.  The VGOS branch versions
     are numbered 9.12.x.  The instructions provided in this section,
     below, are for installing as an upgrade to versions
     9.12.10-9.12.13, the latest VGOS branch releases. As far as we
     know, no other VGOS versions are in use.  If you have a different
     version, please contact Ed (Ed.Himwich@nviinc.com).

The upgrade instructions for the two paths differ only in step (12)
below.

The installation steps for upgrading are:

 (0) Back-up your operational system.  Having a back-up to return to
     will allow you to continue operations in case something goes
     wrong with the installation.  For more details, please see
     appendix sub-section A.4 'Making a back-up before installing'.

     NOTE: If you are using FSL10, that sub-section points you to the
           improved backup and test procedure that is available with
           that distribution.

     NOTE: That sub-section also includes a description of how to
           preserve your operational files and switch back and forth
           between an operational and a test set-up by changing
           symbolic links.

 (1) Login as 'root'.
 
 (2) Place a copy of the FS 'git' repository in the '/usr2' directory
     on your computer For example, you might do the following:

       cd /usr2
       git clone https://github.com/nvi-inc/fs.git fs-git

     or, alternatively, if you need to use 'ssh' instead:

       cd /usr2
       git clone git@github.com:nvi-inc/fs fs-git

 (3) Checkout the beta release from the local repository.

       cd fs-git
       git checkout 10.0.0-beta1

     NOTE: The second command may generate a 'detached HEAD' warning
           message. This is benign and can be ignored as long as it
           ends with 'HEAD is now at 259e2033 Finalize 10.0.0-beta1'

 (4) Set the link for the new FS version:

       cd /usr2/fs-git
       make install
       (answer 'y' to confirm installation)

     NOTE: This step will change your '/usr2/fs' symbolic to point to
           '/usr2/fs-git'. You will need to change the link manually
           to switch back to your old version.

     The 'make install' step may create and possibly rename some
     existing directories if the FS was never installed on this system
     before.  However, if you are using this step as part of upgrading
     on your 32-bit system (this step is not used on a 64-bit system
     you may be converting to), this should not be an issue.

 (5) Having the wrong ownership and/or permissions on the operational
     files (procedure libraries, control files, schedules, and logs)
     can cause errors during FS operations.  For a full discussion,
     please refer to sub-section: A.6. 'Set operations file
     permissions'. For stations where all the operational files are
     expected to owned by user 'oper' in group 'rtx', with permissions
     ('ug+rw,o+r,o-w') the following command will enforce this (note
     that the "execute/search" bits are not changed):
  
       /usr2/fs/misc/fix_perm

     Answer 'y' to the prompt if you wish to proceed. 

 (6) ** VERY IMPORTANT **

     Log-out as 'root', and log-in as 'prog'.

     ** VERY IMPORTANT **

 (7) Make the FS itself:

     A. Set the compiler. Starting with version 10.0.0, the standard
        FORTRAN compiler for use with the FS is 'f95' and we recommend
        that you use it. On the 32-bit systems you can still use
        'fort77', but you should only use it if you either you don't
        have 'f95' or if you have any FORTRAN station code that is too
        difficult to convert to 'f95', see step (8) for more details.

        To select 'f95' as your compiler, you will need to set the
        'FC' variable to this value. If your shell is 'tcsh' you can
        use:

          setenv FC f95

        If your shell is 'bash', you can use:

          export FC=f95

        NOTE: For beta testing on a 32-bit system, you may not want to
              make this change permanent since it is incompatible with
              pre-10.0.0 versions.

        To make this change permanent, you should add the appropriate
        command to the appropriate "rc" file depending on your login
        shell: '~prog/.login' for 'tcsh' or probably '~prog/.profile'
        for 'bash'.

     B. Make the FS:

          cd /usr2/fs
          make >& /dev/null

        and then

          make -s
    
        to confirm that everything compiled correctly (no news is good
        news).

 (8) This step is for modifying your station programs, in '/usr2/st'.
     There are two possible issues: (sub-step A) the impact of FS
     input being case sensitive on the 'antenna=...' command, and (B)
     conversion of FORTRAN code. Even if neither of these issues
     affect you, you must recompile and relink your programs against
     the new FS version in any event, as described in step (9).

     A. If your antenna, or your side of the antenna interface,
        requires that the strings passed by the 'antenna=...' command
        are uppercase, you have two options:

         i. Convert your code. For simple backward compatibility,
            change you 'antcn' program to always convert the
            'antenna=...' strings to upper case. Alternatively, make
            your code case insensitive.

        ii. Convert the strings in your 'antenna=...' commands
            wherever they occur: SNAP procedures, SNAP schedules,
            external programs, or scripts, to upper case.

        The former choice (A) is probably the easier, but in some
        cases (B) may be better. If you have question about which to
        use and how to do it, please contact Ed (Ed.Himwich@nviinc.com).

      B. Conversion of FORTRAN code. If you have station programs in
         FORTRAN, please contact Ed (Ed.Himwich@nviinc.com), but
         basically you have two options:

          i. Use 'f95' for both the FS, see step (7), and your station
             FORTRAN programs. You will need to adapt your 'Makefiles'
             to use the same compiler options as the FS, which can be
             found in '/usr2/fs/include.mk'.  It is recommended that
             you follow this approach for 32-bit systems and it is
             necessary when moving to a 64-bit system.

             As a first cut, it may work to add the following two
             lines to your 'Makefile's for FORTRAN programs:

FFLAGS  += -ff2c -I../../fs/include -fno-range-check -finit-local-zero -fno-automatic -fbackslash
FLIBS   += -lgfortran -lm

         ii. Continue to use 'fort77' as the compiler for both the FS,
             see step (7), and your station programs. You should
             follow this approach ONLY if you are on a 32-bit system
             and it is too difficult to convert to 'f95'.

     When done, be sure to recompile and relink your programs against
     the new FS version in any event, as described in step (9).

 (9) Remake your local software.  If '/usr2/st/Makefile' is set-up in
     the standard way, you can do this with:

       cd /usr2/st   
       make rmdoto rmexe all

     At this point, you are only trying to verify the code will 'make'
     successfully.  You may still need to debug it in the step (16)
     below.

(10) ** VERY IMPORTANT **

     Reboot the computer.  This is important for initializing shared
     memory for the new version.

     ** VERY IMPORTANT **

(11) Log-in as 'oper'.
     
(12) This step is for updates to the local control files. There are
     four changes that are needed, listed here as steps A-D.
     Differences for updating from different versions are noted.
     Please read each step, including sub-steps, carefully to make
     sure you find all the clauses for your old version; sometimes an
     old version is included in more than one clause.

     A. The 'stcmd.ctl' file needs another digit added to the
        subroutine number. This step is only need for updates from
        9.13.2. You can fix your file with the commands:

          cd /usr2/control
          /usr2/fs/misc/cmdctlfix6 stcmd.ctl

        You may also want to expand the (typically) second comment
        line to correspond to the new format by adding a 'U' after
        character 18 to read as:

*COMMAND     SEG SUBPA BO

     B. You will need to execute the following commands to copy new
        files that are needed (cut-and-paste is your friend). There
        are three cases depending on what your old version was:

          i. If your old version was 9.12.10-9.12.12:  

               cd /usr2/control
               cp /usr2/st.default/control/clpgm.ctl .
               cp /usr2/st.default/control/rdbemsg.ctl .

         ii. If your old version was 9.12.13:  

               cd /usr2/control
               cp /usr2/st.default/control/rdbemsg.ctl .

         iii. If your old version was 9.13.2:

               cd /usr2/control
               cp /usr2/st.default/control/dbba2.ctl .
               cp /usr2/st.default/control/mk6c?.ctl .
               cp /usr2/st.default/control/monit6.ctl .
               cp /usr2/st.default/control/rdbc?.ctl .
               cp /usr2/st.default/control/rdbe.ctl .
               cp /usr2/st.default/control/rdbemsg.ctl .

     C. Update your 'equip.ctl' file for the DBBC3 configuration line.
        There are two cases, please check which, if either, applies
        for you.

         i. If your old version was 9.12.10-9.12.13, you will need to
            add the final four lines of the example 'equip.ctl' file
            to yours:

              cd /usr2/control
              tail -n 4 /usr2/fs/st.default/control/equip.ctl >>equip.ctl

        ii. If your old version was 9.13.2, you will need to add the
            final two lines of the example 'equip.ctl' file to yours:

              cd /usr2/control
              tail -n 2 /usr2/fs/st.default/control/equip.ctl >>equip.ctl

     D. You should compare your versions of the following files:

          clpgm.ctl
          equip.ctl
          stpgm.ctl

        to the examples, e.g.:

          cd /usr2/control
          diff clpgm.ctl /usr2/fs/st.default/control/ | less

        and consider whether you should make any changes to your
        copies.  In the case of 'clpgm.ctl', you might just be able to
        replace your copy with the new one.

        The following is a list of changes in these files:

           clpgm.ctl - This file was not present for 9.12.10-9.12.12,
                       so if your old version was one of those, the
                       new default version (copied by commands in step
                       B above) should not require modification.

                     - If your old version was 9.12.13 or 9.13.2: the
                       '-title ...'  parameter for each window was
                       removed so that it is uniquely supplied by the
                       '.Xresources' file.

                     - If your old version was 9.12.13 or 9.13.2: new
                       lines were added for the useful display window
                       'scnch', and the useful RDBE display windows:
                       'monit6', and 'monX' ('X'=[a-b]). The 'monan'
                       program was added since it is used at several
                       sites.

           equip.ctl - This file has the most complicated changes.
                       Please read all clauses to make sure you see
                       all that apply to your old version. The first
                       section covers changes to non-comment lines; the
                       second, comments. The former are essential. The
                       later are in some sense optional, especially
                       when they refer to equipment you don't (or
                       never will) have. However, changing them now
                       may help avoid confusion at a later date.

                          Non-comment lines

                     - If your old version was 9.12.10-9.12.13, the
                       line for DBBC PFB version should be changed to
                       (shown here with the typical preceding
                       comment):

*DBBC PFB version
v15_1    v15_1 or later

                     - If your old FS version was 9.12.10-9.12.13, the
                       line that defines the DBBC2 CoMo configuration
                       has changed. Please see item (12) in the
                       installation instructions in 'fs91119up.txt'
                       for full details on handling this. However, the
                       following commands will probably work if you
                       don't have a DBBC2 or if your DBBC2
                       configuration is four CoMos with one Core per
                       CoMo:

                         cd /usr2/control
                         /usr2/fs/misc/dbbc_equip '1 1 1 1' equip.ctl

                       If the script prints a warning about the number
                       of IF power conversions being incorrect, the
                       issue must be resolved before continuing,
                       either by adjusting the number of power
                       conversions, adjusting the CoMo configuration,
                       or both.

                     - If your old version was 9.12.10-9.12.12 or
                       9.13.2, a new line for the DBBC3 configuration
                       was added at the end, but step C above should
                       have handled that.

                            Comment lines

                     - Compared to all old versions, comment lines
                       were added or modified for new equipment type
                       options. 

                     - If your old version was 9.12.10-9.12.13, a
                       comment line describing the met sensor was
                       changed.

                     - If your old version was 9.12.10-9.12.13, the
                       comment lines describing the available clock
                       rates was completely rewritten and greatly
                       expanded, and an additional clock rate (128)
                       was appended to the end of the comment on
                       clock rate line itself.

           stpgm.ctl - New lines were added for 'erchk', 'monit2', and
                       'scnch' to be started by 'fsclient' when the
                       display server is in use. The new 'erchk' line
                       differs from the previous commented version in
                       that the '-title ...' parameter has been
                       removed so that it is uniquely supplied by the
                       '.Xresources' file.

(13) This step is for updates to your SNAP '.prc' procedure libraries.
     Only one change is needed, to convert use of the old FS 'go'
     program to use 'rte_go'. This change came about because the
     compiler for the 'go' language conflicts with the old name. This
     change is necessary even if you do not have the 'go' language
     compiler installed.

     To make this change for all your '.prc' procedure libraries,
     execute:

        cd /usr2/proc
        /usr2/fs/misc/go_fix *.prc

     Files that are changed will have a pre-change back-up copy with
     the extension '.bak'.

(14) This step is for miscellaneous FS related changes.  There are
     are none for this update.

(15) This step is for miscellaneous FSLx changes. None are required
     for this update.

(16) Test the FS as 'oper'.

     NOTE: If you are following the process in this section on your
           32-bit system as part of converting to 64-bit (section
           III below), you may prefer to save extensive testing until
           you are verifying the 64-bit installation. You could always
           go back and do more testing on the 32-bit system to help
           resolve the origin of problems that are noticed on the
           64-bit system.

     Generally speaking, a fairly thorough test is to run a test
     experiment.  Start with using 'drudg' to rotate a schedule,
     'drudg'-ing it to make '.snp' and '.prc' files, making listings,
     and any other pre-experiment preparation and tests you normally
     do, then execute part of schedule, and perform any normal
     post-experiment plotting and clean-up that you do.  The idea here
     is to verify that everything works as you expect for normal
     operations.

(17) Consider when to update your back-ups.

     NOTE: This step may not be appropriate if you are beta testing
           since the beta test versions are not intended for
           operations.

     It would be prudent to wait until you have successfully run an
     experiment or two and preferably received word that the
     experiment(s) produced good data.  The chances of needing to use
     your back-up should be small.  If something does happen, you can
     copy the back-up to the (now assumed bad) updated disk.  You can
     then either use the restored disk or apply the FS update again.
     The FSL10 test procedure has more options for recovery.  Managing
     this is a lot safer if you have a third disk.

(18) We encourage you to enable the display server interface of the FS
     if you aren't already using it. Instructions for enabling this
     feature (and disabling it, if that should become necessary) can
     be found in '/usr2/fs/misc/display_server.txt'.  This file also
     includes a explanation of how the user interface is different
     from the non-display server.

III. Converting to a 64-bit system

To upgrade your installation to 64-bit, the easiest approach is
probably to first upgrade the FS installation on your 32-bit system to
run FS 10.0, then transfer it to a 64-bit system. This will allow you
verify the upgrade before trying to transfer it.

An alternate method is to copy the station files from your 32-bit
system and then perform the upgrade. This will allow you to upgrade
without modifying your existing system.  These two methods only differ
in when the files are copied to the new machine, in step (3), and when
the update instructions in section II above are used, step (3) or step
(5).

The instructions below assume that the existing system you are using
has a standard FS configuration in terms of symbolic links and
directories.  If your system is different,  you will need to adjust
what you do accordingly, but you may still find the outline of steps
useful.

Please follow these steps:

(1) Install a 64-bit system on a different (hopefully new) computer
    according to:

      https://nvi-inc.github.io/fsl10/

    NOTE: Despite what the URL above says about which version of the
          FS to check-out, at this time you should check-out
          '10.0.0-beta1',

    You can install a different distribution. However, we can't
    provide as much support in that case. The FSL10 distribution is
    tuned to provide a complete platform for running the FS. For other
    distributions you may have to make adjusts for several things that
    an FSL10 installation provides, including:

      - which packages are installed
      - required user accounts and groups

(2) Rename the existing default station specific FS related directories
    on the 64-bit computer to get them out of the way, e.g.:

      cd /usr2
      mv control   control.DEFAULT
      mv sched     sched.DEFAULT
      mv proc      proc.DEFAULT

    If you use the '/usr2/tle_files' directory on your old computer,
    you should rename it on the new computer:

      cd /usr2
      mv tle_files tle_files.DEFAULT

    If your station software is in '/usr2/st-0.0.0' on your old computer,
    you should rename in on the new computer:

      cd /usr2
      mv st-0.0.0  st-0.0.0.DEFAULT

    The 'log' directory were not included above, since it should
    essentially be empty on the new computer, but could also be
    renamed if you prefer:

      cd /usr2
      mv log       log.DEFAULT

(3) For copying your files, there are two options:

    A. If you are upgrading your installation on your old computer
       first, please follow the directions in section II above for
       your old system. Then return here and follow the steps in
       "Copying your files" below, then proceed to step (4) below.

    B. If you are copying your files first, follow the steps in
       "Copying your files" below, then proceed to step (4) below.

                           Copying your files

       Your station specific FS related files can be copied from the
       old computer using any convenient method.  If both systems are
       on the network this can be particularly easy. The following
       example steps use this approach. You should replace the example
       hostname 'old' with your old systems hostname. You may need to
       provide the appropriate password for each 'scp' command (if so,
       you can simplify the process by coping your 'root' 'ssh' keys
       to the new machine with 'ssh-copy-id' first). These commands
       must be executed as 'root':

         i. Transfer operations directories:

              cd /usr2
              scp -pqr oper@old:/usr2/control .
              scp -pqr oper@old:/usr2/sched .
              scp -pqr oper@old:/usr2/proc .

            Note that your 'sched' and 'proc' directories could be
            large and take a significant amount of time to transfer.

            It can be useful to have your old log files on the new
            computer, but that transfer could be even larger:

              cd /usr2
              scp -pqr oper@old:/usr2/log .

            If you use the '/usr2/tle_files' directory on your old
            computer, you can also transfer it:

              cd /usr2
              scp -pqr oper@old:/usr2/tle_files .

        ii. Fix the permissions on the operations directories/files you
            transferred. You can fix their permissions and ownerships
            to the standard with:

              /usr2/fs/misc/fix_perm

            Answer 'y' to confirm.

            If you don't have a '/usr2/tle_files' directory, you will
            get a message that there is no such directory. That is
            benign unless you expect such a directory to be there.

       iii. Make back-up copies of the operations directories. This
            step is optional but may be useful so there are unmodified
            copies of the directories from the old machine to use for
            reference:

              cd /usr2
              cp -a proc      proc-old
              cp -a control   control-old
              cp -a sched     sched-old

            and possibly:

              cd /usr2
              cp -a log       log-old
              cp -a tle_files tle_files-old

        iv. Transfer your station software directory (and make a
            reference copy). This is usually the target directory
            pointed to by the '/usr2/st' symbolic link. On your old
            computer, you can find its name with:

              ls -l /usr2/st
    
            In the rest of this step, the target 'st-1.0.0' will be used as an
            example, but you should replace it with your actual target. (If your
            target is 'st-0.0.0' you should rename the default on the new
            computer as described in step (2) above).

            On the new computer, copy the target from the old computer to the
            new computer, e.g.:

              cd /usr2
              scp -pqr oper@old:/usr2/st-1.0.0 .

            On the new computer, set the '/usr2/st' symbolic link to point to
            the target directory:

              cd /usr2
              ln -fsn st-1.0.0 st

            You can set its permissions and ownership for 'prog' with:

              cd /usr2
              chown -R prog.rtx st-1.0.0
              chmod -R ug+rw,o+r,o-w st-1.0.0

            You can make a reference copy with:

              cd /usr2
              cp -a st-1.0.0 st-1.0.0-old

         v. Copy your 'oper' and 'prog' directories to the new
            computer. This step is optional. The FSL10 installation
            made default home directories for these users on '/usr2'.
            If you did not have customized content for the users on
            the old computer, you could just use the versions on the
            new computer. Still it may be useful to have a copy of
            your old directories on the new system for reference,
            especially if you realize later that there were additional
            programs and files you want to use on the new system. You
            can accomplish the transfers as 'root' using:

              cd /usr2
              scp -pqr oper@old:~ oper-old
              scp -pqr prog@old:~ prog-old

            You may want set their permission and ownership so the
            appropriate user can access them:

              chown -R oper.rtx /usr2/oper-old
              chmod -R a+r,u+w,go-w /usr2/oper-old

              chown -R prog.rtx /usr2/prog-old
              chmod -R a+r,u+w,go-w /usr2/prog-old

            You can customize the home directories on the new computer
            to include any features you want from the old system.

        vi. At this point you are principle done transferring files.
            However, it is also possible that you may need or want
            other changes such as:

            . Copy other files or programs from the old system
            . Install additional Debian packages
            . Copy/set-up additional configuration files, such as:

                /etc/hosts
                /etc/hosts.allow
                /etc/hosts.deny
                /etc/ntp.conf

            You can use a similar process to the one above to transfer
            and/or make reference copies of more files and directories.

(4) Converting your station code. There is one general issue,
    (sub-step A) handling string passed by the 'antenna=...' command.
    Then you may need to use one or both of the additional steps below
    depending on whether you have (B) FORTRAN and/or (C) C station
    code. You may have already handled issues (A) and (B), if you
    updated on a 32-bit system first (for FORTRAN if you did not
    convert to using 'f95', you will still need to do that).  In any
    event, make sure your code 'make's successfully before proceeding
    to step (5). You may still need to debug it later.

    A. If you pass strings to your antenna, or your side of the
       antenna interface, with 'antenna=...' commands, you may need to
       change how those strings are handled. If you have not already
       done this, please see step (II.8.A) above for the details.

    B. If you have FORTRAN station code, it will need to be converted
       to use 'f95'. If you have not already done so, please see step
       (II.8.B) above for the details.  Please contact Ed
       (Ed.Himwich@nviinc.com) if you have FORTRAN station code,
       regardless of whether you have a problem converting it or not.

    C. If you have C station code, it should work as written unless
       you have declared integers that interface to the FS as 'long'.
       For a start at fixing this, please see the URL:

         https://github.com/dehorsley/unlongify

       A small amount of set-up is needed to use the 'unlongify' tool.
       If you are using FSL10, you can install the 'go' language in
       one of two ways listed below. We recommend the first way for
       those that are only using 'go' for the 'unlongify' tool.

         i. You can use the Debian package management system to
            install 'go'.  This will give you an older version of 'go'
            that is perfectly adequate for the task at hand and is
            supported by the normal security mechanism. To install it
            this way, as 'root' use:

              apt-get install golang

        ii. You can install the latest version of 'go', but this is
            outside the normal security mechanism. In this case, you
            will need to manage your own updates, which may not be
            suitable for an operational environment. Both the initial
            install and updates are handled by the 'fsadapt' script,
            as 'root':

              cd /root/fsl10
              ./fsadapt

            In the first window select *only* the option:

              'Install' (or 'Update') 'Go programming language'
             
            Then press 'Enter' on *OK*. On the next screen press 'Tab'
            to highlight 'Cancel' and press 'Enter'. 

        Once you have the 'go' language installed, you need to define
        the 'GOPATH' environment variable and include it in 'prog's
        path.  The default '~prog/.profile' file includes two commands
        (commented out by default) to accomplish these things:

#export GOPATH=~/go
#PATH="$GOPATH/bin:/usr/local/bin/go:$PATH"

        You will need to uncomment these two lines and then log-out
        and log back in again as 'prog' or, in a current login session
        for 'prog', re-execute the file:

          . ~/.profile

        Then you should be able to execute the installation step given
        at the URL above (as 'prog'):

          go get github.com/dehorsley/unlongify

        Please read the 'README.md' file, which is displayed at the
        URL above. Alternatively, it can be viewed at
        ~/prog/go/src/github.com/dehorsley/unlongify/README.md' where
        it was installed by the above command. Please pay particular
        attention to the 'Note' about system calls.

    Once your code 'make's successfully proceed to step (5). You may
    still need to debug it.

(5) If you upgraded to FS10 before copying your files and have made
    any needed changes in your station code as described in step (4)
    above, you should re-test your system, in fact following all the
    steps in section II starting with step (16).

    If you copied your files before upgrading to FS10, and have made
    any needed changes in your station code as described in step (4)
    above, you should complete the upgrade by starting with step (10)
    in section II and completing it and all the following steps.


IV. Changes from previous versions

This section is divided into four sub-sections:

  A. FS Changes compared to 9.13.2
  B. FS Changes compered to VGOS versions
  C. Changes in 'drudg'
  D. Known FS Bugs

Each sub-section starts with a summary of the items covered followed
by a more detailed description.

                   A. FS Changes compared to 9.13.2

The following is a summary of FS changes since 9.13.2.

*TO BE WRITTEN*

 1. Source version control is maintained with 'git'.
 2. Source code now works on 32- and 64-bit platforms.
 3. Input is now case sensitive.

A more detailed discussion of these changes follows.

*TO BE WRITTEN*

 1. Source version control is maintained with 'git'.
 2. Source code now works on 32- and 64-bit platforms.
 3. Input is now case sensitive.

A complete history of the routines changed can be found using the 'git log'
command.

                 B. FS Changes compared to VGOS versions

The following is a summary of FS changes compared to VGOS versions.

*TO BE WRITTEN*

 1. Source version control is maintained with 'git'.
 2. Source code now works on 32- and 64-bit platforms.

A more detailed discussion of these changes follows.

*TO BE WRITTEN*

 1. Source version control is maintained with 'git'.
 2. Source code now works on 32- and 64-bit platforms.

A complete history of the routines changed can be found using the 'git log'
command.

                        C. Changes in 'drudg'
				   
*TO BE WRITTEN*

'drudg' opening message date is 2019Nov20.

The following is a summary of 'drudg' changes

*TO BE WRITTEN*

 1. Source version control is maintained with 'git'.
 2. Source code now works on 32- and 64-bit platforms.

A more detailed discussion of these changes follows.

*TO BE WRITTEN*

 1. Source version control is maintained with 'git'.
 2. Source code now works on 32- and 64-bit platforms.

A complete history of the various changes and the routines they affect
is in /usr2/fs/drudg/change_log.txt.

                           D. Known FS Bugs

(There have been no changes in this section since the previous version.)

The following is a summary list of known bugs. They are described in more
detail after the list.

 1. Do not run 'fmset' for extended periods.
 2. 'odd' and 'even' head types not supported for Mark IV & VLBA4.
 3. 'odd'/'even' head types not supported for VLBA style tapeforms.
 4. 'chekr' does not check the status of the Mark IV formatter or Mark 5
    recorder.
 5. Extraneous errors when tape is stopped by low tape sensor.
 6. 'Comm=' command in logex extracts only the first command.
 7. S2 error scheme clumsy.
 8. No extra spaces allowed in 'ibad.ctl' file.
 9. ONOFF and FIVPT programs hang.
10. FS SNAP command pages don't list tape drive suffix numbers.
11. LBA rack TPI detector is not usable.
12. mk5b_mode and bit_stream commands only report the expected sample
    rate.
13. Some fmpsee routines do not report file I/O error through the log
    system.
14. Some systems calls, particularly in mk5cn and dbbcn, use separate
    UN errors to elaborate on errors in system calls.

A more detailed discussion of these bugs follows.

 1. Do not run 'fmset' for extended periods.  For stations that have
    formatter that can be set with 'fmset', the program should not be
    run for extended periods of time.  The 'fmset' program should be
    used only to set or briefly verify that the formatter time is
    correct.  Do not leave 'fmset' running after completing either of
    these tasks, especially during an experiment.

    The 'fmset' program dominates the Field System when it is running
    and this is likely to interfere with the running of an experiment
    or other activities.  The only way to detect the time from the
    VLBA formatter with greater precision than one second it to wait
    for the seconds response from the formatter to change.  This
    requires the FS to communicate with the formatter almost
    continuously.  A similar problem exists for the S2 recorder.  This
    problem is less severe for other formatters, but extended use of
    'fmset' in this case should be avoided as well.  A reminder about
    this is included in the 'fmset' menu.

 2. 'odd'/'even' head types not supported for Mark IV & VLBA4.  The
    Mark IV and VLBA4 rack version of the 'form' command and the Mark
    IV and VLBA4 recorder versions of the 'repro' and 'parity'
    commands do not support the 'odd' and 'even' parameters for the
    read and write head types and reproduce electronics in the
    'head.ctl' control file.  This means that automatic substitution
    of odd or even head in passes that use only even or odd heads
    respectively does not occur.  The only correct settings for the
    read and write head parameters and reproduce electronics is 'all'.
    This will be fixed in a future revision.  Please let Ed know if
    you are missing some tracks and need to work around this
    limitation.

 3. 'odd'/'even' head types not supported for VLBA style tapeforms.
    For any mode recorded with VLBA style tapeform (14 index
    positions), the only correct setting of the read and write head
    types on the 'head.ctl' is 'all'.  This will be fixed in a future
    revision.  Please let Ed know if you are missing some tracks and
    need to work around this limitation.

 4. 'chekr' does not check the status of the Mark IV formatter or Mark
    5 recorder.  Now that most communication problems with the Mark IV
    formatter have been solved, this will be possible and will be done
    in the future.  'chekr' support will be implemented for Mark 5
    despite communication problems, they will have to be ignored
    unless they extend beyond a certain amount of time.

 5. Extraneous errors when tape is stopped by low tape sensor.  When a
    tape drive has been commanded to move the tape and then stops
    because it hit the low tape sensor (or when S2 recorders hit the
    BOT or EOT), 'chekr' will complain periodically that the tape
    drive is not in the correct state.  In principle the FS should be
    smarter about this.  However, if the tape is managed correctly by
    the schedule this error message should never occur.  If it does,
    then it it an indication that there is either a problem with: (1)
    the schedule, (2) the check procedures, (3) the recorder, or (4)
    the tape is too short.  If any of these cases apply they should be
    corrected.  It is more likely that this error message will occur
    when the tape is being controlled manually.  In this case, issuing
    an 'ET' command will convince the FS that the tape drive should be
    stopped and the error message will cease.

 6. 'comm=' command in 'logex' extracts only the first command.  The
    'comm=' command in 'logex' extracts only the first command
    commanded and displayed.  This problem was noted by Giuseppe
    Maccaferri (Medicina).

 7. S2 error scheme clumsy.  The error and status response number
    reporting scheme for S2 recorders is clumsy.  FS errors that have
    mnemonic 'rl' are mostly error responses from the recorder or the
    RCL interface library that is used to communicate with the
    recorder.  If the numeric part of an 'rl' error is greater than
    -130, then it is the error code returned by the recorder.  If the
    numeric part is less than -130, but greater than -300, then add
    130 to the value, the absolute value of the result is the error
    response code from the RCL library.  For values less than or equal
    to -300, a FS error has been detected.  Status response codes are
    all reported with mnemonic 'rz' and the numeric value is the
    negative of the status response code.  In all cases an appropriate
    error or status message is displayed.  These messages are retained
    in the log.

 8. No extra spaces allowed in 'ibad.ctl' file.  The format of the
    'ibad.ctl' must not contain any leading or embedded spaces.  In
    systems that use the LLP AT-GPIB driver (pre-FS Linux 4), if
    either the option 'no_untalk/unlisten_after' is misspelled or an
    incorrect device name is supplied, the driver will cause a
    segmentation violation when it is initialized and the FS will
    terminate.  Unfortunately there is no way to prevent this problem
    in a general way; it reflects a limitation in the driver.

 9. 'onoff' and 'fivpt' programs hang.  The 'onoff' and 'fivpt'
    programs have been known to 'hang' mysteriously.  This seems to be
    caused by some problem with the 'go' mechanism that is used to
    restart the program when it pauses to allow a SNAP procedure, such
    as 'calon' or 'caloff' to execute.  The 'go' that is used to
    restart the program fails for some reason.  This has been
    exceedingly difficult to debug because it is intermittent and
    fairly rare.  There is however a good work around for it.  The
    'calon' and 'caloff' procedures are called by procedures 'calonfp'
    and 'calofffp' for 'fivpt' and 'calonnf' and 'caloffnf' for
    'onoff'.  'fivpt' and 'onoff' may hang during (or actually just
    after) the execution of one these procedures that FIVPT and ONOFF
    will typically hang.  If this happens, you will have to terminate
    the FS to recover.  You can prevent it from happening again (for
    this procedure) by adding the lines:

      !+1s
      sy=go fivpt &

    to the end of 'calonfp' and 'calonfffp'.  For 'calonnf' and
    'caloffnf', please add:

      !+1s
      sy=go onoff &

    If you see other situations where 'fivpt' and 'onoff' hang, please
    let Ed know.

10. FS SNAP command pages don't list tape drive suffix numbers.  The
    FS SNAP manual pages and the help pages available through the
    'help=' command do not reflect when multiple versions are
    available with different suffixes depending on the number of drive
    specified in the control files.  For example, there is only a
    'tape' page, no 'tape1' or 'tape2' page.  However, the help
    facility will display the version of the command with no suffix
    when an available command with a suffix is used.  For example, if
    two drives are defined, then 'help=tape1' and 'help=tape2' will
    work, but 'help=tape' will not and vice-versa if only one drive is
    defined.

11. LBA rack TPI detector is not usable.  The Australian LBA Data
    Acquisition System currently lacks a functional total power
    detector though support has been included.  To allow approximate
    system temperature calibration, all the setup commands and the TPI
    detectors of the modules of a co-existing Mark IV rack are
    currently also available when the rack type is specified to be
    LBA4.

12. 'mk5b_mode' and 'bit_streams' commands only report the expected
    sample rate.  The value of the actual clock rate is not read back
    from the recorder in order to calculate the actual effective
    sample rate.  Consequently, the query log output includes
    parenthesis around the sample rate as indication that it is not
    read, but expected.  The 'mk5c_mode' command does report the
    actual sample sample rate.

13. Some 'fmpsee' routines do not generally report file I/O error
    through the log system for programs within the FS, specifically
    'boss', 'incom', and 'aquir'.  The 'fmpopen()' routine does use
    the log system to report errors.  Those are the most common
    errors.  However other routines report errors with terminal
    output.  These other routines should eventually use the log
    system.

14. Some systems calls, particularly in 'mk5cn' and 'dbbcn', use
    separate UN errors to elaborate on errors in system calls.  These
    should eventually be integrated into the main error message, but
    whether this makes the errors messages too long (maximum 120
    characters) should be considered.


A. Reference Appendix for Installation

This appendix collects several topics that are useful for installation
in general, but are usually not needed for routine updates.

      A.1. Upgrading from FS versions before the previous stable

This sub-section only covers upgrading from "main" branch versions,
i.e., versions 9.12.x are excluded.

If you are installing FS9 for the first time with this version, please
follow the installation instructions in Section 4.5 of the FS9
'Computer Reference' manual.  In this case you should also get a copy
of the current FS9 'Control Files and Field System Initialization'
manual.

For reference, the list of the most recent 'critical updates,' since
version 9.3.13, is given below.  These are updates that must be
applied sequentially.  Please start with the next update with a later
version number than what you have and apply it and the following
listed versions before upgrading to the new version.  You can find the
latest versions of installation notes for these FS versions in the
'/usr2/fs/misc' directory.  The list of critical updates is:

  9.4.0
  9.5.3
  9.5.12
  9.6.9
  9.7.7
  9.9.2
  9.10.4
  9.11.6
  9.11.8
  9.11.19
  9.13.2

Strictly speaking you do not need to actually use the source archives
(.tgz files) of the previous versions.  You can just follow the steps
in the upgrade notices for your local files for the corresponding FS
versions.  However, it can be very helpful to actually install each
version to help make sure that all of the upgrade steps have been
completed and that the FS will run *and* to test it as described.
This can be particularly helpful when the upgrade requires some
modifications to your local programs.  So it probably best to actually
install *and* test each version along the way.  This is especially
true if you have to upgrade through more than one previous version.
Otherwise if a step was overlooked, it might be hard to identify for
which version the error was made.

You can find the archives for old versions at:

  http://www.metsahovi.fi/fs/dist/old/

If you have a version older than 9.3.13, please contact Ed
(Ed.Himwich@nviinc.com).

	      A.2. Example standard procedure libraries

For reference purposes, information about the example station
libraries for different equipment configurations is given here.  The
files are found in /usr2/fs/st.default/proc.  They can be referred to
and compared to what you have in '/usr2/proc/station.prc'.

**ONLY** for new installations (or complete re-installs), you can copy
the default version for your equipment to '/usr2/proc' renaming it to
'station.prc' in the process, e.g.:

  cd /usr2/proc
  cp -i /usr2/fs/st.default/proc/3station.prc station.prc
  chmod a+rw station.prc

The '-i' option will prompt before overwriting an existing
'station.prc' to give you a chance to recover if you did not realize
you already had a 'station.prc' file.  The table of correspondence
between equipment types and default library names is given next.

      Equipment        Prefix letters  Station Library
      Rack/Drive1/Drive2

      k42/k42              k42         k42station.prc
      k42k3/vlba           k42k3v      k42k3vstation.prc
      k42mk4/vlba          k42mk4v     k42mk4vstation.prc
      k42mk4/vlbab/vlbab   k42mk4vb    k42mk4vstation2.prc
      k42/k5               k42k5       k42k5station.prc
      lba/s2               ls2         ls2station.prc
      lba4/s2              l4s2        l4s2station.prc
      mk3/mk3a             3           3station.prc
      mk4/mk4              4           4station.prc
      mk4/mk5a             45          45station.prc
      mk4/vlba4            4v4         4v4station.prc
      mk5/mk5b             5           5station.prc
      none/s2              s2          s2station.prc
      vlba/s2              vs2         vs2station.prc
      vlba/vlba            v           vstation.prc
      vlba/vlba2           v2          v2station.prc
      vlba/vlba/vlba       v           vstation2.prc
      vlba4/vlba4          v4          v4station.prc
      vlba4/mk5a           v45         v45station.prc
      vlba4/vlba42         v42         v42station.prc
      vlba5/mk5b           v5          v5station.prc
      dbbc/mk5b            d           dstation.prc

If an example for your equipment type is listed, please let Ed
('Ed.Himwich@nviinc.com') know so that it can be added.

		 A.3. Cut-and-paste installation tips

You can use cut-and-paste to reduce the amount of typing involved in
the installation.  This reduces the chances of missing required spaces
and other easily missed characters (like '.') in the commands.  The
basic idea is to have two different terminals open, EITHER (preferred)
two different xterm terminals either on the local X display or
remotely logged in OR (more cumbersome) two different VT text
terminals (Control-Alt-F*, where * is 1-6) on the FS computer you are
upgrading.  You can then switch back and forth between the terminals,
reading the instructions as you scroll through them (with 'more' or
'less') on one terminal and entering commands on the other.  You can
cut-and-paste complicated commands from the terminal with the
instructions to the terminal where you are entering commands as
needed.  You can use 'ssh' or 'su' to 'switch' to users as needed on
the terminal where you are entering commands. For example, you can
change to being 'prog' by executing:

 ssh -X prog@localhost

or

 su - prog

Please don't forget to log back out when you need to change users
again or you may develop a series of 'nested' logins.  Any steps that
require rebooting will of course completely log out all of your
terminals; you will need to re-login again from scratch to continue.
At the end of the update, it is recommended that you login as 'oper'
on the local X display for the final testing.  Please also note that
in order to paste into the X display login shell window for 'oper' and
'prog', you typically must use Shift-Insert.  If you have any
questions about how to cut-and-paste please contact Ed
(Ed.Himwich@nviinc.com).

	       A.4. Making a back-up before installing

This sub-section has two parts. The first covers back-ups. The second
covers using symbolic links to switch between operational and test
set-ups.

                               Back-ups

Before you begin the upgrade make sure you have a current back-up of
your system in case something goes wrong. If you are using one of the
FSLx distributions, there are options for each

  FSL10 (stretch) - See the procedure at:

https://nvi-inc.github.io/fsl10/raid.html#_test_upgrade_of_fs_system_updates_or_other_significant_changes

  FSL9 (wheezy)  - If the system is configured as a RAID,please see
                   /usr2/fs/misc/FSL9_RAID.pdf section APPLYING AN
                   UPDATE for directions for applying an update. i

  FSL8 (lenny), FSL7, (etch), FSL6 (sarge)
                 - If the system is configured as a RAID, please see
                   /usr2/fs/misc/RAID.pdf section APPLYING AN UPDATE
                   for directions for applying an update.

  FSL5 (woody) - We recommend you use the tar based back-up that is
                 part of the rotating disk back-up scheme.  A draft
                 document that describes this method is available in
                 the 'docs' sub-directory on the FS file servers as
                 'backups2.pdf'.

If you have an even older FS Linux distribution, please use the
disk-to-disk back scheme described in Section 5.8 of the FS9 'Computer
Reference' manual.

If you are running one of these FSL distributions and do not have
documentation on how to make a back-up, please contact Ed
(Ed.Himwich@nviinc.com).

If you have SCSI disks, Section 5.7 of the FS9 'Computer Reference'
manual has a discussion of drive ID numbers if you are unsure about
these.

Except for FSL10 (which as a different scheme), you would normally
choose to install the update on your primary disk after having made
and verified your back-up.  Once the installation is complete, has
been tested, and used for a little while, you can copy over your
back-up with the upgraded primary.  If the upgrade fails, you should
restore the back-up to the primary for operations.  You can then try
to upgrade again when it is convenient.  In a desperate situation, you
can use the back-up for operations.  You may choose to install the FS
on your back-up disk for testing and then later copy the back-up onto
the primary once you are satisfied with the new version.  In any
event, please be sure to make a fresh back-up (and put it safely away)
before attempting an update installation.

                         Using symbolic links

*After* you have made a backup (to allow recovery in case something
bad should happen), you can use symbolic links to your directories to
change between your operational and test directories.  This may allow
you to more easily switch between an operational and testing
configuration.

In the following examples, it is assumed that '/usr2/fs-9.13.2' is
your operational FS version and the FS you want to test is in
'/usr2/fs-test' and that '/usr2/st-1.0.0' is the directory with your
station software; you should substitute the correct directories if
they are different. All commands must be entered as 'root'. Extra
white space has been added only to improve legibility. 

If you have aliased 'rm' to 'rm -i' and 'mv' to 'mv -i' and 'cp' to
'cp -i', you will prompted to confirm before anything destructive
occurs. If so and if everything is set-up properly below, the only
cases where you should only be asked to confirm is for deleting the
symbolic links in examples iv and v.

  i. To set-up initially for testing:

       (make sure the FS is not running)

       cd /usr2

       (make sure there are no existing directories: control-ops,
        proc-ops, st-1.0.0-ops, control-test, proc-test,
        st-1.0.0-test, or use different names and adjust this and
        other examples accordingly)

       mv control   control-ops
       mv proc      proc-ops
       mv st-1.0.0  st-1.0.0-ops

       cp -a control-ops   control-test
       cp -a proc-ops      proc-test
       cp -a st-1.0.0-ops  st-1.0.0-test

       ln -sfn control-test  control
       ln -sfn proc-test     proc
       ln -sfn st-1.0.0-test st

       (then follow the installation instructions, you will be
        modifying the '-test' versions)

 ii. To switch temporarily to your operational version (assumed here
     to use '/usr2/fs-9.13.2'):

       (make sure the FS is not running)

       cd /usr2

       ln -sfn control-ops   control
       ln -sfn proc-ops      proc
       ln -sfn st-1.0.0-ops  st
       ln -sfn fs-9.13.2     fs

       (reboot)

     The above commands (even rebooting if you like) can be put in
     a script if you need to do this more than once.

iii. To switch temporarily to your test version (assumed here
     to use '/usr2/fs-test'):

       (make sure the FS is not running)

       cd /usr2

       ln -sfn control-test   control
       ln -sfn proc-test      proc
       ln -sfn st-1.0.0-test  st
       ln -sfn fs-test        fs

       (reboot)

     The above commands (even rebooting if you like) can be put in
     a script if you need to do this more than once.

 iv. When you are satisfied with the testing of the new system
     (assumed here to use '/usr2/fs-test'), you can switch permanently
     to it for operations with:

       (make sure the FS is not running)

       cd /usr2

       rm  control
       rm  proc

       mv control-test   control
       mv proc-test      proc
       mv st-1.0.0-test  st-1.0.0

       ln -sfn st-1.0.0  st
       ln -sfn fs-test   fs

       (reboot)

    Your old operational directories are left for possible future
    reference.

 v. To switch permanently to your operational version (assumed here to
     use '/usr2/fs-9.13.2'):

       (make sure the FS is not running)

       cd /usr2

       rm control
       rm proc

       mv control-ops   control
       mv proc-ops      proc
       mv st-1.0.0-ops  st-1.0.0

       ln -sfn st-1.0.0  st
       ln -sfn fs-9.13.2 fs

       (reboot)

     Your old test directories are left for possible future reference.

		     A.5. Disk space requirements

Please be sure that you have at least 50 MB of free space (use the
'df' UNIX command to check free space) on your '/usr2' partition
before starting the upgrade.  This would probably only be an issue for
stations with 200 MB disks.  If you are tight on space, you may want
to delete old log files and old versions of the FS (except your most
recent one if you can avoid it of course).  Since you should have
backed-up your system, you can even delete the '*.[oas]' and
executable files of your old versions with no risk.  You might want to
keep the source of the previous versions around for reference if you
have room.  You can eliminate the non-source files by 'cd'-ing to each
of the old FS directories in turn as 'prog' and executing:

  make rmdoto rmexe

as shell command.  If you have any questions about how to do this,
please contact Ed.

		 A.6. Set operations file permissions

It is recommended that your local files for operations (control, proc,
log, sched, tle_files directories and their contents) have the default
ownership ('oper.rtx') and permissions (for regular files 'rw-rw-r-',
for directories 'rwxrwxr-x').  To force this (however, this will not
change the "execute/search" bits), please execute the script (as
'root'):

  /usr2/fs/misc/fix_perm

Answer 'y' to the prompt if you wish to proceed.  It is a good idea to
do this, unless you have purposely changed the ownership and
permissions to some other values.  If you don't want to restore the
defaults, answer 'n' (this is the last chance to abort the execution
of the script). If you don't have a '/usr2/tle_files' directory,
you will get a message that there is no such directory.

		 A.7. Fix '.prc' file 'define' lines

Sometimes due to errors (possibly caused during manual editing,
instead of using 'pfmed'), the 'define' statements in '.prc' files can
be damaged.  This can lead to other problems including causing the
contents of procedures being logged every time they are executed
rather than just the first time they are used in a given log file.
You can use the utility, '/usr2/fs/misc/fix_define', to fix this. You
can run it when the FS is *not active* (as 'oper'):

  cd /usr2/proc
  /usr2/fs/misc/fix_define -t *.prc

in "test" mode to see if there any 'define' statements that need to be
fixed.  If there are, they will be displayed.  If you choose to fix
them, you can re-run the second command above without the '-t' flag to
apply the fix.  An original of each '.prc' file that is changed is
retained with an added '.bak' extension.
