File: /usr2/fs-9.5.13/misc/fs9513up.txt  Version: 1.0 Date: 021004

I. Introduction

This memo is divided into 4 sections:
   I.   Introduction.
   II.  Changes Since Version 9.5.12
   III. Installation
   IV.  Transferring The Update Archive By DOS Floppy

Please print this notice and read it carefully before installing the
new version. The intended audience for this version is geodetic
stations running CONT02 that will be using Mark 5 recorders as part of
their operations during this period: Kokee, Westford, and Wettzell.
For all other stations this is an optional update. A further update
(probably 9.5.14) will be released around Oct 18 and will be targeted
for the November EVN session. It will include all features of this
update.

This version is intended to installed as an update for 9.5.12 and is
relatively easy to do in this case.

II. Changes Since Version 9.5.12

The sections is divided into three sub-sections: A. Change in the FS,
B. Changes in DRUDG, and C. Known Bugs. Each sub-section starts with a
summary of the items covered followed by a more detailed description.

			 A. Changes in the FS

The following is a summary of the changes. More detailed text follows
the summary.

1. The Mark 5 data_check command protects against negative read
   pointers.
2. logpl now supports plotting channel 1 versus channel 2
3. tcad updated for new TAC32+ software
4. fsvue enhancements
5. VEX library update

A more detailed discussion of these changes follows.

1. The Mark 5 data_check command protects against negative read
   pointers. The data_check command now verifies that setting the red
   pointer to one Megabyte less than the write pointer won't result in
   a negative pointer and reports an error if it does.

2. logpl now supports plotting channel 1 versus channel 2. logpl
   includes a new feature that allows channel 1 to be plotted against
   channel 2. This is available through the "Options" menu. If
   parameters for both channels appear on the same log line, the
   pairing of points is straightforward. If they appear on different
   lines, the algorithm is that the first entry encountered for
   channel 1 is paired with the first following entry for channel
   2. For subsequent points, the search begins with the next following
   channel 1 entry. If after a channel 1 entry is found no channel 2
   entry is found before the next encountered channel 1 entry, the
   first channel 1 entry is discarded and the search continues to find
   a channel 2 entry for the second channel 1 entry. The "Options"
   menu also includes an option to switch to the plot axes. This
   allows the plot to have its axes reversed, without changing the
   search algorithm, i.e., the meaning of channel 1 and channel 2 for
   the search algorithm are not reversed. This is useful for example
   for two items that are sampled as a pair, such as phase-cal phase
   and amplitude, within a few seconds of each other, with a longer
   delay between pairs. Switching axes does not change the matching of
   the pairs, but only of which items is displayed on vertical axis.

3. tcad updated for new TAC32+ software. New code was introduced for
   reading TAC32+ code version and new TAC32+ formatting. It is
   recommended that all who are using the TAC32+ should update to
   version 2.7.0. This version of tacd is backward compatible with all
   TAC32+ software versions except 2.6.x.

4. fsvue enhancements. When examining logs the current log file will
   appear on the screen, and help for the TNX command was added.
   'fsvue' is coming along due to the help and comments from all in
   the field. Please continue to express what you would like to see
   'fsvue' do as your Friendly User Interface (FUI). If you have not
   tried fsvue please do so. All comments and/or questions are always
   welcomed (good or bad). rgonzale@gemini.gsfc.nasa.gov

5. VEX library update. A capability for writing vex files has been
   added to vex library. In addition there is now support for literal
   blocks and scan IDs.

                         B. Changes in DRUDG

drudg opening message date is 021002. The following areas in DRUDG
were modified.

1. Mk5 disk-only recording.
2. Geo/astro schedule recognition.

A more detailed discussion of these changes follows.

1. Mk5 disk-only recording. drudg now recognizes "Mark5" as a recorder
   type in Option 11. If your station is doing Mk5-only and NOT
   piggyback, you should use Option 11 to change your recorder type to
   "Mark5" which is type 10. The SNAP and procedure files generated by
   drudg will have appropriate disk control commands and no tape
   commands. For stations with Mk4 formatters, the Mk5 is assumed to
   be connected to the second headstack, so tracks and trackform
   commands are generated for both headstacks, same as for piggyback
   mode.

   If you are recording piggy-back, you need to use Option 13 so that
   both tape and disk commands are generated. In this case do not use
   Option 11.

2. Geo/astro schedule recognition. drudg recognizes the type of
   schedule and prints messages indicating whether the schedule is for
   geodesy or astronomy, and whether it's a VEX or standard format
   file. This feature is not used yet, but it is hoped to be
   reliable. The geo/astro decision is made, for a VEX file, based on
   inclusion of the SCHEDULING_PARAMS block.  This block is written
   for geo VEX output files but is not included in SCHED-generated VEX
   files.

   If you notice an incorrect comment, please let me know so that we
   can make sure this feature works for future needs.


			    C. Known Bugs

The following is a summary list of known bugs. They are described in
more detail after the list.

1. Do not run "fmset" for extended periods.
2. "odd" and "even" head types not supported for Mark IV & VLBA4.
3. "odd"/"even" head types not supported for VLBA style tapeforms.
4. CHEKR does not check the status of the Mark IV formatter.
5. DRUDG almost always generates IF3 commands for Mark III/IV racks.
6. Extraneous errors when tape is stopped by low tape sensor.
7. "Comm=" command in logex extracts only the first command.
8. S2 error scheme clumsy.
9. No extra spaces allowed in "ibad.ctl" file.
10. ONOFF and FIVPT programs hang.
11. FS SNAP command pages don't list tape drive suffix numbers.

A more detailed discussion of these bugs follows.

1. Do not run "fmset" for extended periods. For stations that have
VLBA, Mark IV back-ends and/or an S2 recorder, the "fmset" program
should not be run for extended periods of time.  The "fmset" program
should be used only to set or briefly verify that the formatter time
is correct.  Do not leave "fmset" running after completing either of
these tasks, especially during an experiment.

The "fmset" program dominates the Field System when it is running and
this is likely to interfere with the running of an experiment or other
activities.  The only way to detect the time from the VLBA formatter
with greater precision than one second it to wait for the seconds
response from the formatter to change.  This requires the FS to
communicate with the formatter almost continuously.  A similar problem
exists for the S2 recorder.  This problem is less severe for the Mark
IV formatter, but extended use of "fmset" in this case should be
avoided as well.  In a future revision, this will be made more robust
so that there will probably be less danger if "fmset" is left running.
However, even in the future "fmset" should only be left running for as
short a time as possible.  A reminder about this is included in the
"fmset" menu.

2. "odd"/"even" head types not supported for Mark IV & VLBA4. The
Mark IV and VLBA4 rack version of the "form" command and the Mark IV
and VLBA4 recorder versions of the "repro" and "parity" commands do
not support the "odd" and "even" parameters for the read and write
head types and reproduce electronics in the "head.ctl" control file.
This means that automatic substitution of odd or even head in passes
that use only even or odd heads respectively does not occur.  The only
correct settings for the read and write head parameters and reproduce
electronics is "all".  This will be fixed in a future revision.
Please let Ed know if you are missing some tracks and need to work
around this limitation.

3. "odd"/"even" head types not supported for VLBA style tapeforms. For
any mode recorded with VLBA style tapeform (14 index positions), the
only correct setting of the read and write head types on the
"head.ctl" is "all".  This will be fixed in a future revision.  Please
let Ed know if you are missing some tracks and need to work around
this limitation.

4. CHEKR does not check the status of the Mark IV formatter.
Implementation of this has been deferred until the formatter
communication problems have been resolved.

5. DRUDG almost always generates IF3 commands for Mark III/IV racks.
This always occurs for experiments run from .DRG and non-VEX .SKD
files regardless of whether they are needed or not.  This occurs
because it is impossible to know whether IF3 is needed or not.

6. Extraneous errors when tape is stopped by low tape sensor. When a
tape drive has been commanded to move the tape and then stops because
it hit the low tape sensor (or when S2 recorders hit the BOT or EOT),
"CHEKR" will complain periodically that the tape drive is not in the
correct state.  In principle the FS should be smarter about this.
However, if the tape is managed correctly by the schedule this error
message should never occur.  If it does, then it it an indication that
there is either a problem with: (1) the schedule, (2) the check
procedures, (3) the recorder, or (4) the tape is too short.  If any of
these cases apply they should be corrected.  It is more likely that
this error message will occur when the tape is being controlled
manually.  In this case, issuing an "ET" command will convince the FS
that the tape drive should be stopped and the error message will
cease.

7. "Comm=" command in logex extracts only the first command. The
"comm=" command in "logex" extracts only the first command commanded
and displayed.  This problem was noted by Giuseppe Maccaferri
(Medicina).

8. S2 error scheme clumsy. The error and status response number
reporting scheme for S2 recorders is clumsy.  FS errors that have
mnemonic "rl" are mostly error responses from the recorder or the RCL
interface library that is used to communicate with the recorder.  If
the numeric part of an "rl" error is greater than -130, then it is the
error code returned by the recorder.  If the numeric part is less than
-130, but greater than -300, then add 130 to the value, the absolute
value of the result is the error response code from the RCL library.
For values less than or equal to -300, a FS error has been detected.
Status response codes are all reported with mnemonic "rz" and the
numeric value is the negative of the status response code.  In all
cases an appropriate error or status message is displayed.  These
messages are retained in the log.

9. No extra spaces allowed in "ibad.ctl" file. The format of the
"ibad.ctl" must not contain any leading or embedded spaces.  In system
that use the LLP AT-GPIB driver (pre-FS Linux 4), if either the option
"no_untalk/unlisten_after" is misspelled or an incorrect device name
is supplied, the driver will cause a segmentation violation when it is
initialized and the FS will terminate.  Unfortunately there is no way
to prevent this problem in a general way; it reflects a limitation in
the driver.

10. ONOFF and FIVPT programs hang. The ONOFF and FIVPT programs have
been known to "hang" mysteriously.  This seems to be caused by some
problem with the "go" mechanism that is used to restart the program
when it pauses to allow a SNAP procedure, such as CALON or CALOFF to
execute.  The "go" that is used to restart the program fails for some
reason.  This has been exceedingly difficult to debug because it is
intermittent and fairly rare.  There is however a good work around for
it.  The CALON and CALOFF procedures are called by procedures CALONFP
and CALOFFFP for FIVPT and CALONNF and CALOFFNF for ONOFF.  FIVPT or
ONOFF may hang during (or actually just after) the execution of one
these procedures that FIVPT and ONOFF will typically hang.  If this
happens, you will have to terminate the FS to recover.  You can
prevent it from happening again (for this procedure) by adding the
lines:

!+1s
sy=go fivpt &

to the end of CALONFP or CALOFFFP.  For CALONNF and CALOFFNF, please
add:

!+1s
sy=go onoff &

If you see other situations where FIVPT or ONOFF hang, please let Ed
know.

11. FS SNAP command pages don't list tape drive suffix numbers. The FS
SNAP manual pages and the help pages available through the "help="
command do not reflect when multiple versions are available with
different suffixes depending on the number of drive specified in the
control files. For example, there is only a "tape" page, no "tape1" or
"tape2" page. However, the help facility will display the version of
the command with no suffix when an available command with a suffix is
used. For example, if two drives are defined, then "help=tape1" and
"help=tape2" will work, but "help=tape" will not and vice-versa if
only one drive is defined.

III. Installation

If you are installing FS9 for the first time with this version, please
follow the installation instructions in Section 4.5 of the FS9
"Computer Reference" manual or the "nfsload.txt" memo.  In this case
you should also get a copy of the current FS9 "Control Files and Field
System Initialization" manual.

If you are upgrading from a version prior to 9.5.12, please upgrade to
that version first, then install this upgrade.

The following instructions are for upgrading from 9.5.12. Please
follow all the steps.

If you are upgrading from an different version that wasn't mentioned
here, please contact Ed for additional instructions.

(0) Before you begin the upgrade make sure you have a current back-up
of your system in case something goes wrong.  Please refer to the
directions for making disk-to-disk back-ups in Section 5.8 of the FS9
"Computer Reference" manual.  If you are running one of the Debian
distribution kernels and do not have documentation on how to make a
back-up, please contact Ed.  Section 5.7 of the FS9 "Computer
Reference" manual has a discussion of drive ID numbers if you are
unsure about these.  You may choose to install the FS on your back-up
disk for testing and then later copy the back-up onto the primary once
you are satisfied with the new version.  In any event, please be sure
to make a fresh back-up before continuing with the installation.

(1) Please be sure that you have at least 20 MB of free space (use the
"df" UNIX command to check free space) on your "/usr2" partition
before starting the upgrade.  This would probably only be a problem
for stations with 200 MB disks.  If you are tight on space, you may
want to delete old log files and old versions of the FS (except your
most recent one of course).  Since you should have backed-up your
system, you even can delete the "*.[oas]" and executable files of your
most recent version.  You might want to keep the source of the previous
version around for reference if you have room.  You can eliminate the
unnecessary files by "cd"-ing to the old FS directory as "prog" and
doing a "make rmdoto rmexe".  If you have any questions about how to
do this, please contact Ed.

(2) Log-in as prog.

(3) Place a copy of the fs-9.5.13 archive in your "/tmp" directory. For
example you might do the following:

    cd /tmp
    ncftp -u atri.gsfc.nasa.gov
    (enter your account name for the server at prompt)
    (enter your password for the server at prompt)
    cd /fs/dist
    get fs-9.5.13.tar.gz
    quit

Please note "ncftp" will automatically get this file in binary mode.
If you use "ftp" you may have to enable binary mode manually.

If you need to transfer the archive using DOS floppies, please see the
section "IV. Transferring The Update Archive By DOS Floppy" below.

(4) Log-out as prog and log-in as root.

(5) Extract the source from the archive:

    cd /
    tar -xzpf /tmp/fs-9.5.13.tar.gz

(6) Set the link for the new FS version:

    cd /usr2
    ln -sfn fs-9.5.13 fs

(7) VERY IMPORTANT: Log-out as root, and log-in prog.

(8) Make the FS:

    cd /usr2/fs
    make

(9) It should not be necessary to remake your local software. If you
    do need to for some reason and if you have standard station
    software "Makefile" configuration, the following steps should do
    the trick:

      cd /usr2/st
      make rmdoto rmexe all

(10) It should not be necessary to reboot the computer, but it is safe
     to do so.

(11) Log in as oper

(12) Test the FS.  Generally speaking a fairly thorough test is to run
     a test experiment: start with DRUDG-ing a schedule, executing
     part of it (preferably at least a tape change and a parity check
     in each direction), do any normal post-experiment plotting and
     clean-up that you do.  The idea here is to verify that everything
     works as you expect for normal operations.  It also is a good
     idea to (at least) briefly try any calibration procedures that
     you use the FS for, such as pointing and narrow track head
     calibration.


VII. Transferring The Update Archive By DOS Floppy

In order to assist sites that need to transfer the FS archive by DOS
floppy, "split" files of the fs-9.5.13.tar.gz archive have been placed
in the /fs/dist directory on atri.gsfc.nasa.gov.  These files are
small enough to each fit on 1.44 MB 3.5" floppy.  The files are:

fs9513tg.aa
fs9513tg.ab

If you need to use DOS floppies to get files to the FS computer,
please copy these files to some directory such as /tmp on the FS
computer and then execute the command:

cat fs9513tg.* >fs-9.5.13.tar.gz

This will create an exact image of the original fs-9.5.13.tar.gz
archive on your computer.  Please be sure to use binary transfer when
getting the files from atri or kurp-ftp.
