File: /usr2/fs-9.8.0/misc/fs9800up.txt  Version: 1.0 Date: 050731

I. Introduction

This memo is divided into six sections:

   I.   Introduction.
   II.  Changes Since Version 9.7.7
   III. Installation
   IV.  Transferring The Update Archive By DOS Floppy

Please print this notice and read it carefully before installing the
new version.

This version is intended for all stations.  However, it is a
preliminary version.  An updated version with additional new features
will be released in a few days or weeks.  You may choose to wait until
that release since none of the changes included here are required for
operations and several are in preliminary form only.  However, if you
would like to try the new version, we would be happy to get any
feedback you can provide/

You can access the new Mark 5 disk module label printing feature in
DRUDG described below without changing to this new version of the FS.
In this case, when you "install" the new version, skip the steps that
involve changing the /usr2/fs link, remaking the station software,
rebooting, and any and all local customization updates. In other
words, just unpack the archive and "make" it (in /usr2/fs-9.8.0).  The
new DRUDG can then be run as "/usr2/fs-9.8.0/bin/drudg", but should
only be used in the new label printing mode as described below.  Your
old version of the FS will still be used for all other operations.

This version is intended to installed as an update for 9.7.7.  Very
few local customizations are required for this update.

II. Changes Since Version 9.7.7

The sections is divided into three sub-sections: A. Change in the FS,
B. Changes in DRUDG, and C. Known FS Bugs.  Each sub-section starts
with a summary of the items covered followed by a more detailed
description.

			 A. Changes in the FS

The following is a summary of the changes.

1. Numerous bug fixes
2. "gnplt" update
3. "msg" doesn't dominate CPU in "auto-start" mode
4. "form" command added to "postob" for Mark IV formatters
5. PFMED now handles long lines in procedures
6. Mark IV "form" command checks for possible bit slips
7. "msg" expanded to include Type D modules
8. "systests" system test utilities added

A more detailed discussion of these changes follows.

1. Numerous bug fixes. These include: simple "=" versions of:
   "disk_record=", "disk2file=",a nd "in2net=" no longer cause abend;
   printing of time fields in "data_check" and "scan_check" fixed;
   errors from previous command are no longer reported by "scan_name"
   or other commands. If bugs you are aware have not been fixed,
   please inform Ed (weh@ivscc.gsfc.nasa.gov).

2. "gnplt" update. Andrea Orlati has provided an improved version of
   "gnplt" with many bugs fixed.  Also, an error in the reading of
   spillover tables from .rxg files both in the FS and "gnplt"
   ("gndat" actually) was reported and fixed by Andrea.  Please inform
   Ed (weh@ivscc.gsfc.nasa.gov) and Andrea (a.orlati@ira.cnr.it) of
   any other bugs you know of or encounter.

3. "msg" doesn't dominate CPU in "auto-start" mode. An extra delay was
   added to the "process_logfile" subprocess. This seems to reduce the
   system thrashing without compromising the functionality.

4. "form" command added to "postob" for Mark IV formatters. This
   command was added to help identify cases where a bit slip may have
   occured.

5. "pfmed" now handles long lines in procedures. Line lengths up to
   about 512 characters are now supported. The new procedure logging
   facility in "boss" was changed to support longer lines. This was an
   issue primarily with long Mark IV decoder commands (about 100
   characters). All other instances of problems with long lines in the
   FS have been fixed.

6. Mark IV "form" command checks for possible bit slips. The "form"
   command will check (and report) the error bit combination (0x600)
   that indicates a bit slip may have happened.

7. "msg" expanded to include Type D modules. The types of modules were
   increased.  The format of the e-mail message for media information was
   changed to hopefully improve readability.

8. "systests" system test utilities added. An initial version of a
   suite of SNAP procedures and data analysis and plotting scripts was
   added.  See "/usr2/fs/systests/systests.txt" for more information.


			 B. Changes in DRUDG
				   
DRUDG opening message date is 050729.  This release of DRUDG includes:

1. Labels for Mark 5 disk modules.
2. "equip_override" bug fixed.
3. Last scan bug in label command fixed.
4. S2 tape change time bug fixed.
5. Mark5 continuous geodetic schedules supported.
6. Bug in Mark IV label command fixed.

A more detailed discussion of these changes follows.

1. Labels for Mark 5 disk modules.  DRUDG now supports generation of
   these disk modules.  This is not available through the usual label
   printing option (6).  Instead it is accessed from the command line
   of DRUDG.  If DRUDG is started with the name of a log file as the
   first parameter, e.g.:

     drudg r4181gc.log

   It will print the labels for the disk modules used in that log and
   then exit.  This is a new feature and any feedback on how it works
   would be appreciated.

2. "equip_override" bug fixed.  The "equip_override" feature was
   introduced to allow stations to specify Mark5 in their skedf.ctl
   file.  Unfortunately it had the unintended consequence that you
   could not change the equipment type using option 11.  This was
   because the equip_override code was executed after a file was read
   in, and also after option 11 was executed.  This bug was fixed in
   9.7.7: A flag was set, and equip_override was only executed once.

   Unfortunately, this had the consequence that if you read in another
   schedule, drudg would use the equipment type from the schedule, and
   not the equipment override option.  This bug has now been fixed in
   9.7.8.  Equipment override will work once for each schedule.

3. Last scan bug in label command fixed.  The ending time of the last
   label was that of the 2nd-to-last scan, and not that of the last
   scan.  This has been fixed.

4. S2 tape change time bug fixed.  Bug in S2 tape change time fixed.
   Previous versions might change the tape one scan too early.  This
   generally wasn't a problem with long tapes.

5. Mark5 continuous geodetic schedules supported.  Drudg was modified
   to change these schedules to "start&stop" to avoid disk wastage.
   In addition, an early start of 12 seconds was implemented to allow
   the VLBA correlator to sync up.

6. Bug in Mark IV label command fixed.  Some stations are still not
   getting the correct number of Mark IV tape labels.  This was fixed.

 			    C. Known FS Bugs

The following is a summary list of known bugs.  They are described in
more detail after the list.

1. Do not run "fmset" for extended periods.
2. "odd" and "even" head types not supported for Mark IV & VLBA4.
3. "odd"/"even" head types not supported for VLBA style tapeforms.
4. CHEKR does not check the status of the Mark IV formatter or Mark 5
   recorder.
5. Extraneous errors when tape is stopped by low tape sensor.
6. "Comm=" command in logex extracts only the first command.
7. S2 error scheme clumsy.
8. No extra spaces allowed in "ibad.ctl" file.
9. ONOFF and FIVPT programs hang.
10. FS SNAP command pages don't list tape drive suffix numbers.
11. LBA rack TPI detector is not usable..

A more detailed discussion of these bugs follows.

1. Do not run "fmset" for extended periods.  For stations that have
VLBA, Mark IV back-ends and/or an S2 recorder, the "fmset" program
should not be run for extended periods of time.  The "fmset" program
should be used only to set or briefly verify that the formatter time
is correct.  Do not leave "fmset" running after completing either of
these tasks, especially during an experiment.

The "fmset" program dominates the Field System when it is running and
this is likely to interfere with the running of an experiment or other
activities.  The only way to detect the time from the VLBA formatter
with greater precision than one second it to wait for the seconds
response from the formatter to change.  This requires the FS to
communicate with the formatter almost continuously.  A similar problem
exists for the S2 recorder.  This problem is less severe for the Mark
IV formatter, but extended use of "fmset" in this case should be
avoided as well.  In a future revision, this will be made more robust
so that there will probably be less danger if "fmset" is left running.
However, even in the future "fmset" should only be left running for as
short a time as possible.  A reminder about this is included in the
"fmset" menu.

2. "odd"/"even" head types not supported for Mark IV & VLBA4.  The
Mark IV and VLBA4 rack version of the "form" command and the Mark IV
and VLBA4 recorder versions of the "repro" and "parity" commands do
not support the "odd" and "even" parameters for the read and write
head types and reproduce electronics in the "head.ctl" control file.
This means that automatic substitution of odd or even head in passes
that use only even or odd heads respectively does not occur.  The only
correct settings for the read and write head parameters and reproduce
electronics is "all".  This will be fixed in a future revision.
Please let Ed know if you are missing some tracks and need to work
around this limitation.

3. "odd"/"even" head types not supported for VLBA style tapeforms.
For any mode recorded with VLBA style tapeform (14 index positions),
the only correct setting of the read and write head types on the
"head.ctl" is "all".  This will be fixed in a future revision.  Please
let Ed know if you are missing some tracks and need to work around
this limitation.

4. CHEKR does not check the status of the Mark IV formatter or Mark 5
recorder. Now that most communication problems with the Mark IV
formatter have been solved, this will be possible and will be done in
the future. CHEKR support will be implemented for Mark 5 despite
communication problems, they will have to be ignored unless they
extend beyond a certain amount of time.

5. Extraneous errors when tape is stopped by low tape sensor.  When a
tape drive has been commanded to move the tape and then stops because
it hit the low tape sensor (or when S2 recorders hit the BOT or EOT),
"CHEKR" will complain periodically that the tape drive is not in the
correct state.  In principle the FS should be smarter about this.
However, if the tape is managed correctly by the schedule this error
message should never occur.  If it does, then it it an indication that
there is either a problem with: (1) the schedule, (2) the check
procedures, (3) the recorder, or (4) the tape is too short.  If any of
these cases apply they should be corrected.  It is more likely that
this error message will occur when the tape is being controlled
manually.  In this case, issuing an "ET" command will convince the FS
that the tape drive should be stopped and the error message will
cease.

6. "Comm=" command in logex extracts only the first command.  The
"comm=" command in "logex" extracts only the first command commanded
and displayed.  This problem was noted by Giuseppe Maccaferri
(Medicina).

7. S2 error scheme clumsy.  The error and status response number
reporting scheme for S2 recorders is clumsy.  FS errors that have
mnemonic "rl" are mostly error responses from the recorder or the RCL
interface library that is used to communicate with the recorder.  If
the numeric part of an "rl" error is greater than -130, then it is the
error code returned by the recorder.  If the numeric part is less than
-130, but greater than -300, then add 130 to the value, the absolute
value of the result is the error response code from the RCL library.
For values less than or equal to -300, a FS error has been detected.
Status response codes are all reported with mnemonic "rz" and the
numeric value is the negative of the status response code.  In all
cases an appropriate error or status message is displayed.  These
messages are retained in the log.

8. No extra spaces allowed in "ibad.ctl" file.  The format of the
"ibad.ctl" must not contain any leading or embedded spaces.  In system
that use the LLP AT-GPIB driver (pre-FS Linux 4), if either the option
"no_untalk/unlisten_after" is misspelled or an incorrect device name
is supplied, the driver will cause a segmentation violation when it is
initialized and the FS will terminate.  Unfortunately there is no way
to prevent this problem in a general way; it reflects a limitation in
the driver.

9. ONOFF and FIVPT programs hang.  The ONOFF and FIVPT programs have
been known to "hang" mysteriously.  This seems to be caused by some
problem with the "go" mechanism that is used to restart the program
when it pauses to allow a SNAP procedure, such as CALON or CALOFF to
execute.  The "go" that is used to restart the program fails for some
reason.  This has been exceedingly difficult to debug because it is
intermittent and fairly rare.  There is however a good work around for
it.  The CALON and CALOFF procedures are called by procedures CALONFP
and CALOFFFP for FIVPT and CALONNF and CALOFFNF for ONOFF.  FIVPT or
ONOFF may hang during (or actually just after) the execution of one
these procedures that FIVPT and ONOFF will typically hang.  If this
happens, you will have to terminate the FS to recover.  You can
prevent it from happening again (for this procedure) by adding the
lines:

!+1s
sy=go fivpt &

to the end of CALONFP or CALOFFFP.  For CALONNF and CALOFFNF, please
add:

!+1s
sy=go onoff &

If you see other situations where FIVPT or ONOFF hang, please let Ed
know.

10. FS SNAP command pages don't list tape drive suffix numbers.  The
FS SNAP manual pages and the help pages available through the "help="
command do not reflect when multiple versions are available with
different suffixes depending on the number of drive specified in the
control files.  For example, there is only a "tape" page, no "tape1"
or "tape2" page.  However, the help facility will display the version
of the command with no suffix when an available command with a suffix
is used.  For example, if two drives are defined, then "help=tape1"
and "help=tape2" will work, but "help=tape" will not and vice-versa if
only one drive is defined.

11. LBA rack TPI detector is not usable.  The Australian LBA Data
Acquisition System currently lacks a functional total power detector
though support has been included.  To allow approximate system
temperature calibration, all the setup commands and the TPI detectors
of the modules of a co-existing Mark IV rack are currently also
available when the rack type is specified to be LBA4.

III. Installation

If you are installing FS9 for the first time with this version, please
follow the installation instructions in Section 4.5 of the FS9
"Computer Reference" manual or the "nfsload.txt" memo.  In this case
you should also get a copy of the current FS9 "Control Files and Field
System Initialization" manual.

The following instructions are for upgrading from 9.7.7. Please follow
all the steps.

A list of "critical updates" is given below.  These are updates that
must be applied sequentially.  Please start with the next update with
a later version number than you have and apply it and the remaining
listed version before upgrading to 9.8.0.  You can find the latest
versions of installation notes for these FS versions in the
"/usr2/fs/misc" directory. The list of critical updates is:

  9.4.0
  9.5.3
  9.5.12
  9.6.9
  9.7.7

If you have a version older than 9.4.0, please contact Ed.

(0) Before you begin the upgrade make sure you have a current back-up
of your system in case something goes wrong.  If you are use FS Linux
5, we recommend you use the tar based back-up that is part of the
rotating disk back-up scheme.  A draft document that describes this
method is available in the docs sub-directory on the FS FTP servers as
backups2.pdf.  If you have an older FS Linux distribution, please use
the disk-to-disk back scheme described in Section 5.8 of the FS9
"Computer Reference" manual.  If you are running one of the Debian
distribution kernels and do not have documentation on how to make a
back-up, please contact Ed.  Section 5.7 of the FS9 "Computer
Reference" manual has a discussion of drive ID numbers if you are
unsure about these.  Normally you should choose to install the update
on your primary after having made and verified your back-up.  Once the
installation is complete, has been tested, and used for a little
while, you can copy over your back-up with the upgraded primary.  If
the upgrade fails, you should restore the back-up to the primary for
operations.  You can then try to make the upgrade again when it is
convenient.  In a desperate situation, you can use the back-up for
operations.  You may choose to install the FS on your back-up disk for
testing and then later copy the back-up onto the primary once you are
satisfied with the new version.  In any event, please be sure to make
a fresh back-up before continuing with the installation.

(1) Please be sure that you have at least 40 MB of free space (use the
"df" UNIX command to check free space) on your "/usr2" partition
before starting the upgrade.  This would probably only be a problem
for stations with 200 MB disks.  If you are tight on space, you may
want to delete old log files and old versions of the FS (except your
most recent one if you can avoid it of course).  Since you should have
backed-up your system, you even can delete the "*.[oas]" and
executable files of your old versions with no risk.  You might want to
keep the source of the previous versions around for reference if you
have room.  You can eliminate the non-source files by "cd"-ing to old
FS directories as "prog" and doing a "make rmdoto rmexe".  If you have
any questions about how to do this, please contact Ed.

(2) Log-in as prog.

(3) Place a copy of the fs-9.8.0 archive in your "/tmp" directory.
For example you might do the following:

      cd /tmp
      ftp atri.gsfc.nasa.gov
      (enter your account name for the server at the prompt)
      (enter your password for the server at prompt)
      binary
      cd dist
      get fs-9.8.0.tgz
      quit

If you need to transfer the archive using DOS floppies, please see the
section "V.  Transferring The Update Archive By DOS Floppy" below.

(4) Log-out as prog and log-in as root.

(5) Extract the source from the archive:

      cd /
      tar -xzpf /tmp/fs-9.8.0.tgz

(6) Set the link for the new FS version:

      cd /usr2
      ln -sfn fs-9.8.0 fs

(7) It is recomended that your local files have the default ownership
    ("oper.rtx") and permissions ('rw-rw-rw'). To force this, please
    execute the script:

      /usr2/fs/misc/fix_perm

    Answer "y" to the prompt if you wish to proceed.  It is good idea
    to do this, unless you have purposely changed the ownerships and
    permissions to some other values.  If you don't want to restore
    the defaults , answer "n".  That is the last chance to abort the
    execution of the script.

(8) VERY IMPORTANT: Log-out as root, and log-in prog.

(9) Make the FS:

      cd /usr2/fs
      make

(10) Remake your station software.  The following steps should do the
     trick to reload your station software if you have the "standard"
     configuration for station software:

       cd /usr2/st
       make rmdoto rmexe all

(11) Reboot your computer.

(12) Log in as oper

(13) Modify your procedure files.  The only change is for stations
     that use Mark IV formaters.  They should add the "form" command
     to any and all versions of their "postob" procedures that are
     used with the Mark IV formatter.  Please note that the "4form"
     command can be instead in versions of "postob" that are shared by
     configurations that use the Mark IV formatter and other systems.
     In those cases, the use of the "4form" command should prevent
     getting an error when the Mark IV formatter is not in use.

(14) Update your control files. No control file updates are needed at
     this time.

(15) Reboot the computer.  This is important for both re-initializing
     shared memory and the login environment.

(16) Test the FS.  Generally speaking a fairly thorough test is to run
     a test experiment: start with DRUDG-ing a schedule, executing
     part of it (preferably at least a tape change and a parity check
     in each direction), and perform any normal post-experiment
     plotting and clean-up that you do.  The idea here is to verify
     that everything works as you expect for normal operations.  In
     particular for this upgrade you should test that Mark 5
     operations work as expected.

VI. Transferring The Update Archive By DOS Floppy

In order to assist sites that need to transfer the FS archive by DOS
floppy, "split" files of the fs-9.8.0.tgz archive have been placed in
the /fs/dist directory on atri.gsfc.nasa.gov.  These files are small
enough to each fit on 1.44 MB 3.5" floppy.  The files are:

fs9800tg.aa
fs9800tg.ab

If you need to use DOS floppies to get files to the FS computer,
please copy these files to some directory such as /tmp on the FS
computer and then execute the command:

cat fs9800tg.* >fs-9.8.0.tgz

This will create an exact image of the original fs-9.8.0.tgz archive
on your computer.  Please be sure to use binary transfer when getting
the files from atri or kurp-ftp.
