File: /usr2/fs-9.9.2/misc/fs9902up.txt  Version: 0.3  Date: 061115

I. Introduction

This memo is divided into six sections:

   I.   Introduction.
   II.  Changes Since Version 9.9.0
   III. Installation
   IV.  Transferring The Update Archive By DOS Floppy

Please print this notice and read it carefully before installing the
new version.

This version is intended for all stations.  We urge all stations to
upgrade as soon as practical.

II. Changes Since Version 9.9.0

This section is divided into three sub-sections: A. Changes in the FS,
B. Changes in DRUDG, and C. Known FS Bugs.  Each sub-section starts
with a summary of the items covered followed by a more detailed
description.

			 A. Changes in the FS

The following is a summary of the FS changes.

1. The back_check command was added to the "ready_disk" procedure for
   Mark5 recorders.

A more detailed discussion of these changes follows.

1. The back_check command was added to the "ready_disk" procedure for
   Mark5 recorders.  This change helps assure that the correct disk
   VSN is recorded in the log for the first observation in case any
   manipulation of the installed disk packs is necessary during the
   "halt" that this procedure executes.

			 B. Changes in DRUDG
				   
DRUDG opening message date is 2006Nov15.  This release of DRUDG
includes the following changes. Item 4 was added after 9.9.1.

1. Extra page in option 5 listing fixed.
2. S2-support bug fixed.
3. Mark5 label times fixed.
4. Missing Mark5 label output in 9.9.1 has been restored.

A more detailed discussion of these changes follows.

1. Extra page in option 5 listing fixed.  The print-out was changed so
   that the first page has the same number of lines as subsequent
   pages.  This caused a minor inconvenience at some stations where an
   extra page would be printed because the first page was too long.

2. S2-support bug fixed. Some S2 schedules w/o an LBA did not read in
   correctly.  If they read in correctly, then the proc files could
   not be produced.  This was traced to an unitialized variable, and
   the way DRUDG handled track assignments.

3. Mark5 label times fixed.  In some circumstances the label times
   were off.  This has been fixed.

4. Missing Mark5 label output in 9.9.1 has been restored.  It was
   accidentally turned off in 9.9.1.

			   C. Known FS Bugs

The following is a summary list of known bugs.  They are described in
more detail after the list.

1. Do not run "fmset" for extended periods.
2. "odd" and "even" head types not supported for Mark IV & VLBA4.
3. "odd"/"even" head types not supported for VLBA style tapeforms.
4. CHEKR does not check the status of the Mark IV formatter or Mark 5
   recorder.
5. Extraneous errors when tape is stopped by low tape sensor.
6. "Comm=" command in logex extracts only the first command.
7. S2 error scheme clumsy.
8. No extra spaces allowed in "ibad.ctl" file.
9. ONOFF and FIVPT programs hang.
10. FS SNAP command pages don't list tape drive suffix numbers.
11. LBA rack TPI detector is not usable.
12. FS "data_check" and "scan_check" commands do not work with Mark5B.

A more detailed discussion of these bugs follows.

1. Do not run "fmset" for extended periods.  For stations that have
   VLBA, Mark IV back-ends and/or an S2 recorder, the "fmset" program
   should not be run for extended periods of time.  The "fmset"
   program should be used only to set or briefly verify that the
   formatter time is correct.  Do not leave "fmset" running after
   completing either of these tasks, especially during an experiment.

   The "fmset" program dominates the Field System when it is running
   and this is likely to interfere with the running of an experiment
   or other activities.  The only way to detect the time from the VLBA
   formatter with greater precision than one second it to wait for the
   seconds response from the formatter to change.  This requires the
   FS to communicate with the formatter almost continuously.  A
   similar problem exists for the S2 recorder.  This problem is less
   severe for the Mark IV formatter, but extended use of "fmset" in
   this case should be avoided as well.  In a future revision, this
   will be made more robust so that there will probably be less danger
   if "fmset" is left running.  However, even in the future "fmset"
   should only be left running for as short a time as possible.  A
   reminder about this is included in the "fmset" menu.

2. "odd"/"even" head types not supported for Mark IV & VLBA4.  The
   Mark IV and VLBA4 rack version of the "form" command and the Mark
   IV and VLBA4 recorder versions of the "repro" and "parity" commands
   do not support the "odd" and "even" parameters for the read and
   write head types and reproduce electronics in the "head.ctl"
   control file.  This means that automatic substitution of odd or
   even head in passes that use only even or odd heads respectively
   does not occur.  The only correct settings for the read and write
   head parameters and reproduce electronics is "all".  This will be
   fixed in a future revision.  Please let Ed know if you are missing
   some tracks and need to work around this limitation.

3. "odd"/"even" head types not supported for VLBA style tapeforms.
   For any mode recorded with VLBA style tapeform (14 index
   positions), the only correct setting of the read and write head
   types on the "head.ctl" is "all".  This will be fixed in a future
   revision.  Please let Ed know if you are missing some tracks and
   need to work around this limitation.

4. CHEKR does not check the status of the Mark IV formatter or Mark 5
   recorder. Now that most communication problems with the Mark IV
   formatter have been solved, this will be possible and will be done
   in the future. CHEKR support will be implemented for Mark 5 despite
   communication problems, they will have to be ignored unless they
   extend beyond a certain amount of time.

5. Extraneous errors when tape is stopped by low tape sensor.  When a
   tape drive has been commanded to move the tape and then stops
   because it hit the low tape sensor (or when S2 recorders hit the
   BOT or EOT), "CHEKR" will complain periodically that the tape drive
   is not in the correct state.  In principle the FS should be smarter
   about this.  However, if the tape is managed correctly by the
   schedule this error message should never occur.  If it does, then
   it it an indication that there is either a problem with: (1) the
   schedule, (2) the check procedures, (3) the recorder, or (4) the
   tape is too short.  If any of these cases apply they should be
   corrected.  It is more likely that this error message will occur
   when the tape is being controlled manually.  In this case, issuing
   an "ET" command will convince the FS that the tape drive should be
   stopped and the error message will cease.

6. "Comm=" command in logex extracts only the first command.  The
   "comm=" command in "logex" extracts only the first command
   commanded and displayed.  This problem was noted by Giuseppe
   Maccaferri (Medicina).

7. S2 error scheme clumsy.  The error and status response number
   reporting scheme for S2 recorders is clumsy.  FS errors that have
   mnemonic "rl" are mostly error responses from the recorder or the
   RCL interface library that is used to communicate with the
   recorder.  If the numeric part of an "rl" error is greater than
   -130, then it is the error code returned by the recorder.  If the
   numeric part is less than -130, but greater than -300, then add 130
   to the value, the absolute value of the result is the error
   response code from the RCL library.  For values less than or equal
   to -300, a FS error has been detected.  Status response codes are
   all reported with mnemonic "rz" and the numeric value is the
   negative of the status response code.  In all cases an appropriate
   error or status message is displayed.  These messages are retained
   in the log.

8. No extra spaces allowed in "ibad.ctl" file.  The format of the
   "ibad.ctl" must not contain any leading or embedded spaces.  In
   systems that use the LLP AT-GPIB driver (pre-FS Linux 4), if either
   the option "no_untalk/unlisten_after" is misspelled or an incorrect
   device name is supplied, the driver will cause a segmentation
   violation when it is initialized and the FS will terminate.
   Unfortunately there is no way to prevent this problem in a general
   way; it reflects a limitation in the driver.

9. ONOFF and FIVPT programs hang.  The ONOFF and FIVPT programs have
   been known to "hang" mysteriously.  This seems to be caused by some
   problem with the "go" mechanism that is used to restart the program
   when it pauses to allow a SNAP procedure, such as CALON or CALOFF
   to execute.  The "go" that is used to restart the program fails for
   some reason.  This has been exceedingly difficult to debug because
   it is intermittent and fairly rare.  There is however a good work
   around for it.  The CALON and CALOFF procedures are called by
   procedures CALONFP and CALOFFFP for FIVPT and CALONNF and CALOFFNF
   for ONOFF.  FIVPT or ONOFF may hang during (or actually just after)
   the execution of one these procedures that FIVPT and ONOFF will
   typically hang.  If this happens, you will have to terminate the FS
   to recover.  You can prevent it from happening again (for this
   procedure) by adding the lines:

    !+1s
    sy=go fivpt &

  to the end of CALONFP or CALOFFFP.  For CALONNF and CALOFFNF, please
  add:

    !+1s
    sy=go onoff &

  If you see other situations where FIVPT or ONOFF hang, please let Ed
  know.

10. FS SNAP command pages don't list tape drive suffix numbers.  The
    FS SNAP manual pages and the help pages available through the
    "help=" command do not reflect when multiple versions are
    available with different suffixes depending on the number of drive
    specified in the control files.  For example, there is only a
    "tape" page, no "tape1" or "tape2" page.  However, the help
    facility will display the version of the command with no suffix
    when an available command with a suffix is used.  For example, if
    two drives are defined, then "help=tape1" and "help=tape2" will
    work, but "help=tape" will not and vice-versa if only one drive is
    defined.

11. LBA rack TPI detector is not usable.  The Australian LBA Data
    Acquisition System currently lacks a functional total power
    detector though support has been included.  To allow approximate
    system temperature calibration, all the setup commands and the TPI
    detectors of the modules of a co-existing Mark IV rack are
    currently also available when the rack type is specified to be
    LBA4.

12. FS "data_check" and "scan_check" commands do not work with Mark5B.
    The form of the Mark5B "data_check?" and "scan_check?" responses
    are different from the Mark5A form.  As a result it was not
    straight forward to make the FS "data_check" and "scan_check"
    commands work with both Mark5B and Mark5A at the time of this
    release.  They do work with Mark5A at this time.  The "data_check"
    and "scan_check" commands will work with Mark5B in a future
    release.

III. Installation

If you are installing FS9 for the first time with this version, please
follow the installation instructions in Section 4.5 of the FS9
"Computer Reference" manual.  In this case you should also get a copy
of the current FS9 "Control Files and Field System Initialization"
manual.

The following instructions are for upgrading from 9.9.0.  Please
follow all the steps. If you have 9.7.7 installed, please follow the
installation instructions in fs9900up.txt.

A list of "critical updates" is given below.  These are updates that
must be applied sequentially.  Please start with the next update with
a later version number than you have and apply it and the following
listed versions before upgrading to 9.9.2.  You can find the latest
versions of installation notes for these FS versions in the
"/usr2/fs/misc" directory. The list of critical updates is:

  9.4.0
  9.5.3
  9.5.12
  9.6.9
  9.7.7
  9.9.0

If you have a version older than 9.4.0, please contact Ed.

There is a way to reduce the amount of typing involved in the
installation.  This reduces the changes of missing required spaces and
other easily missed characters (like ".") in the commands.  The steps
below are described assuming you will be using a VT text terminal
(Control-Alt-*, where * is 1-6) on the FS computer you are upgrading.
You can also use a remotely logged in "xterm" or the local X display
(Control-Alt-7) of the computer.  If you use a remote xterm or the
local X display, you can have one xterm that you are using to scroll
through the instructions (with "more" or "less") and another that you
are using to enter the commands.  This will allow you to use
cut-and-paste to copy long commands from the instructions to the
terminal you are using to execute the commands, thus reducing the
chances of mistyping.  One problem with using the local X display is
that when you login and logout to change users, you will also kill the
window that is being used to list the instructions.  A way around this
is to use SSH in the xterm you are using to enter commands to re-login
to the system for executing commands that require different
privileges.  For example, you change to being root by executing:

 ssh -X root@localhost

Please don't forget to log back out when you need to change users
again.  The steps that require rebooting will of course completely log
out all of your terminals.  At the end of the update, it is
recommended that you login as "oper" on the local X display for the
final testing.  Please note that if you login as "root" to the local X
display of systems using the typical FS Linux distributions, you will
need to left (or maybe right) click the mouse on the background to
bring up a menu that allows you to open an xterm.  There is usually
another menu option to exit when you wan to logout.  Please also note
that to paste into the X display login shell window for "oper" and
"prog", you typically must use Shift-Insert.  It is also possible to
cut-and-paste between two "VT" text terminals (for example from the
one for the instructions to the one for the commands) if your mouse is
configured properly.  If it is, this may be the easiest solution.  If
you have any questions about how to cut-and-paste please contact Ed
(weh@ivscc.gsfc.nasa.gov).

(0) Before you begin the upgrade make sure you have a current back-up
    of your system in case something goes wrong.  If you are use FS
    Linux 5, we recommend you use the tar based back-up that is part
    of the rotating disk back-up scheme.  A draft document that
    describes this method is available in the docs sub-directory on
    the FS FTP servers as backups2.pdf.  If you have an older FS Linux
    distribution, please use the disk-to-disk back scheme described in
    Section 5.8 of the FS9 "Computer Reference" manual.  If you are
    running one of the Debian distribution kernels and do not have
    documentation on how to make a back-up, please contact Ed.
    Section 5.7 of the FS9 "Computer Reference" manual has a
    discussion of drive ID numbers if you are unsure about these.
    Normally you should choose to install the update on your primary
    after having made and verified your back-up.  Once the
    installation is complete, has been tested, and used for a little
    while, you can copy over your back-up with the upgraded primary.
    If the upgrade fails, you should restore the back-up to the
    primary for operations.  You can then try to make the upgrade
    again when it is convenient.  In a desperate situation, you can
    use the back-up for operations.  You may choose to install the FS
    on your back-up disk for testing and then later copy the back-up
    onto the primary once you are satisfied with the new version.  In
    any event, please be sure to make a fresh back-up before
    continuing with the installation.

(1) Please be sure that you have at least 40 MB of free space (use the
    "df" UNIX command to check free space) on your "/usr2" partition
    before starting the upgrade.  This would probably only be an issue
    for stations with 200 MB disks.  If you are tight on space, you
    may want to delete old log files and old versions of the FS
    (except your most recent one if you can avoid it of course).
    Since you should have backed-up your system, you even can delete
    the "*.[oas]" and executable files of your old versions with no
    risk.  You might want to keep the source of the previous versions
    around for reference if you have room.  You can eliminate the
    non-source files by "cd"-ing to each of the old FS directories in
    turn as "prog" and doing a "make rmdoto rmexe".  If you have any
    questions about how to do this, please contact Ed.

(2) Log-in as prog.

(3) Place a copy of the fs-9.9.2 archive in your "/tmp" directory.
    For example you might do the following:

      cd /tmp
      ftp atri.gsfc.nasa.gov
      (enter your FS FTP account name at the prompt)
      (enter your FS FTP password at the prompt)
      binary
      cd dist
      get fs-9.9.2.tgz
      quit

    The FS FTP area is also available at http://kurp-www.hut.fi/fs/.

    If you need to transfer the archive using DOS floppies, please see
    the section "V.  Transferring The Update Archive By DOS Floppy"
    below.

(4) Log-out as prog and log-in as root.

(5) Extract the source from the archive:

      cd /
      tar -xzpf /tmp/fs-9.9.2.tgz

(6) Set the link for the new FS version:

      cd /usr2
      ln -sfn fs-9.9.2 fs

(7) It is recommended that your local files have the default ownership
    ("oper.rtx") and permissions ('rw-rw-rw'). To force this, please
    execute the script:

      /usr2/fs/misc/fix_perm

    Answer "y" to the prompt if you wish to proceed.  It is good idea
    to do this, unless you have purposely changed the ownerships and
    permissions to some other values.  If you don't want to restore
    the defaults , answer "n".  That is the last chance to abort the
    execution of the script.

(8) VERY IMPORTANT: Log-out as root, and log-in prog.

(9) Make the FS:

      cd /usr2/fs
      make

(10) Reboot the computer.  This is important for re-initializing
     shared memory.

(11) Log in as oper

(12) Modify your procedure files.  Only one change is needed: add
     "bank_check" to the "ready_disk" procedure, if you haven't
     already done so.  This change is only for stations that use Mark
     5 recorders.  You should used PFMED to make this change.  The
     command should be added after the "halt" command.  It is probably
     best if it occurs right at the end of the procedure.  Please see
     /usr2/fs/st.default/proc/m5.prc for an example.

     For stations that use multiple hardware configurations:
            
        If you have different versions of the "station" library for
        different equipment configurations, you should be sure to
        update all versions that are used in configurations with the
        Mark 5 recorder.

(13) Test the FS.  Testing should not be necessary for this patch
     update. However, if you want to test the new version, then
     generally speaking a fairly thorough test is to run a test
     experiment: start with DRUDG-ing a schedule, making listings, and
     any other pre-experiment preparation you normally do, then
     execute part of schedule, and perform any normal post-experiment
     plotting and clean-up that you do.  If you use tape, you should
     test a section that includes a tape change and a parity check in
     each direction.  The idea here is to verify that everything works
     as you expect for normal operations.  In particular for this
     upgrade you should test that Mark 5 operations work as expected.

VI. Transferring The Update Archive By DOS Floppy

In order to assist sites that need to transfer the FS archive by DOS
floppy, "split" files of the fs-9.9.2.tgz archive have been placed in
the /fs/dist directory on atri.gsfc.nasa.gov.  These files are small
enough to each fit on 1.44 MB 3.5" floppy.  The files are:

fs9902tg.aa
fs9902tg.ab

If you need to use DOS floppies to get files to the FS computer,
please copy these files to some directory such as /tmp on the FS
computer and then execute the command:

cat fs9902tg.* >fs-9.9.2.tgz

This will create an exact image of the original fs-9.9.2.tgz archive
on your computer.  Please be sure to use binary transfer when getting
the files from atri.
