File: /usr2/fs/misc/mk5b_ops.txt  Version: 0.4  Date: 071102

		 FS Operations with Mark 5B Recorders

			      Ed Himwich

INTRODUCTION

This document describes basic FS operations with Mark 5B recorders.
The Mark 5B is different from most other recorders used by the FS
(except the S2 and K4) in that it formats and time-tags the data
rather than a formatter in the acquisition rack or DAS.  From the FS's
point-of-view Mark 5B and Mark 5B+ recorder are interchangable and
"Mark 5B" elsewhere in this document refers to both.  The FS support
for the Mark 5B recorder is designed primarily for use with a VSI4
board, which typically is used in the form of a Mark 5B sampler
module, which is a plug replacement for a Mark IV formatter.  Some
tips are provided in this document for how to use the FS if the Mark
5B is receiving sampled data from a different source such as a DBE,
DBBC, or other sampler.  The following sections describe and are
titled: Use of DRUDG, FS Mark 5B support, FS VSI4 Support, Mark 5B
operation with VSI4 board operations, Other Mark 5B Operations,
Understanding Mark 5B Sync Status, and Systests VSI4 Support.

The dimino program mentioned in this document is the control program
used in the Mark 5B.  In principle, it could also be run as "Mark5B"
or "DIMino". However, as of the writing of this document, the
only recommended choice is "dimino".

Use of DRUDG

Using DRUDG with the Mark 5B requires the user to select mark5b as the
recorder type in option 11 or the skedf.ctl control file.  If the VSI4
sampler board is in use in MarkIV or VLBA4 rack, the rack type should
be chosen as either mark5 or vlba5 (also in option 11) depending on
whether the rack is otherwise a Mark IV or VLBA rack.  Other racks can
be chosen of course, but they may not be useful.  All other operation
of DRUDG is same as for other recorder types except that piggyback
mode is not supported for Mark 5B.  DRUDG will insert the appropriate
commands for observing into the .snp and .prc files based on the rack
and recorder selections.

FS Mark 5B Support

FS support for Mark 5B is selected by specifying "mk5b" or "mk5b_bs"
in the "equip.ctl" control file.  The "mk5b_bs" option enables FS
controlled "bank switching" and as of the writing of this document is
the one used for normal operations.  This will probably change when
and if the Mark 5B supports automatic bank switching, in which case
"mk5b" would be used.  This is the same situation as wth the "mk5a"
and "mk5a_bs" recorder types.

Most of the changes for Mark 5B support in the FS are transparent to
the user.  The most visible changes are: the new "mk5b_mode" command,
new features in "setcl" and new features on "fmset".  The IP address
of the Mark5B unit must be place in the "mk5ad.ctl" file in order for
the FS to communicate with the Mark5B.

The "mk5b_mode" command is used to select the data source, bit stream
recording mask, and the decimation ratio.  Please use the
"help=mk5b_mode" SNAP command to get more details on the "mk5b_mode"
command.

The "setcl" program is the same as for other systems, except it will
now communicate with the Mark 5B if it is the selected equipment.  If
the rack type selected includes a VSI4 board ("mk5" or "vlba5") and
if any of the Mark 5B parameters: 1PPS source, Clock Frequency, and
Clock Source are incorrect, they will be reported as errors.  The
messages for these errors include suggestions to use the "fmset"
program to fix the problem.  For any type of useful recording, the
Clock Source must be set to "ext".  Regardless of rack type, "setcl"
will complain if it is not set to "ext", but for rack types that do
not include a VSI4 board, it will suggest that it be corrected
manually, which would be done with a "mk5=..." command.

The "fmset" operates in a similar way as for other systems.  New
features for Mark 5B equipment include display of the sync status on
the "time display line" for the Mark 5B and display of the 1PPS
source, Clock Frequency, and Clock Source of the Mark 5B.  If the rack
type selected includes a VSI4 board ("mk5" or "vlba5") and any of
the last three of these parameters are incorrect, a message suggesting
use of the 's' key to fix the problem is displayed.  For these racks,
the 's' key also commands the correct values for these parameters
before commanding a clock re-sync.  The 's' command performs a clock
re-sync for the Mark 5B regardless of the rack types.  For other rack
types, if the Clock Source parameter is incorrect, "fmset" will
suggest that it be set manually.

FS VSI4 Support

Only small aspects of Field System are different for use with a VSI4
sampler board: the new "vsi4" command and the changes to the "setcl"
and "fmset" programs described above under Mark 5B support.  The
support for the VSI4 board is selected by using either "mk5" or
"vlba5" as the rack type in the "equip.ctl" control file.  The line
"5B=5b" must be in the "matad.ctl" file. See
"/usr2/fs/st.default/control/matad.ctl" for an example.

The VSI4 board is controlled through the "vsi4" command.  DRUDG will
insert the correct form of the command into the set-up procedure based
on the recording mode of the experiment.  For more information on the
command, please use the SNAP command "help=vsi4".  Please note that
the "vsi4" command parameters control both the sampler configuration
and the sampled data sent to the Mark IV Decoder as the "X" and "Y"
(pcalports) inputs.  Parameters that are not specified in a "vsi4=..."
command will not be changed or re-commanded, i.e., there are no
defaults.

Mark 5B Operations with a VSI4 Board

Each time the dimino program is started, the operator should run the
"fmset" program to check the status of the time in the Mark 5B and
adjust it as necessary.  On the first running of "fmset" after a
power-up restart of the Mark 5B and before setting the time, the
operator should use the "s" command to make sure the dimino 1PPS and
clock parameters are properly set and the Mark 5B is properly synced.
The "s" command may be used at other times if necessary to re-command
the parameters and re-sync.

Other Mark 5B Operations

Mark 5B operations without a VSI4 board are similar to those above but
with some small differences.  Primarily these are that the operator
needs to set the dimino 1PPS_Source and clock_set parameters manually.
This must be done before running "fmset" to set the time.  It may be
convenient to write a SNAP procedure that sets these parameters so
that they don't need to be entered repetitively.  The content of such
a procedure might be something like:

mk5=1pps_source=vsi;
mk5=clock_set=64:ext;

The values of the dimino command parameters from the example above
should be adjusted as appropriate for the actual configuration.
Different versions of this procedure can be written if more than one
configuration is used.  If one particular configuration is used often,
a call to a SNAP procedure that sets the parameters for that
configuration can be included in the station "initi" procedure so that
they are set automatically when the FS is started.  This will work if
the dimino program is already running when the FS is started.  If not
or if it is restarted, this set-up procedure will need to be
re-executed.

Since the FS does not know the correct values of dimino 1PPS_Source
and clock_set parameters unless a VSI4 board is being used, the
"setcl" and "fmset" programs cannot verify their values.  Also, the
"fmset" will not command the values when the 's' command is used.
Extra vigilance by the operators is required to make sure the
parameters are set properly.  If a non-supported rack (such as a DBE,
DBBC, or other non_FS supported DAS) that uses the same values for
these parameters as the VSI4 board (1PPS source: vsi, Clock frequency:
32, Clock Source: ext), then the rack type in the "equip.ctl" file can
be set to either "mk5" or "vlba5" and then value will be checked and
the "fmset" 's' command can be used to set them.  Note this is benign
since the other commands that are used for these racks will not be
useful since the rack is not there.  If you use this approach, please
note you should pick "none" as the rack type when running DRUDG.
Other rack types can be added to the FS to enable setting and checking
of different values of these dimino parameters if it is
desired. Please contact Ed (Ed.Himwich@nasa.gov) if you would like to
have this feature added.

Understanding Mark 5B Sync Status

The Mark 5B sync status is a latching error condition that shows if
the synch test failed since the last time the error condition was
reset (with the "disk_record=on" command or DOT "force" resync).
There is no more detailed indication of when this error occurred.  The
sync test checks for the 1 PPS occurring within a small window of when
it is expected based on counting cycles of the external clock, usually
32 MHz.  When the error occurs it may only be intermittant, e.g., if
the 1 PPS is from a different source than the 32 MHz, they may drift
apart and back together slowly at some level.  This is the case for
which the "latching" nature of the error condition is useful, since
otherwise you may not see it.

The FS only displays the Mark 5B sync status report, in the "fmset"
program, which is the point at which a resync can be performed. After
the Mark 5B is "sync'd", the status is normally monitored during
operation using the "fmout-gps" command.  A synopsis of the reported
sync status values and their meanings is presented here:

not_synced   - Mark 5B 1 PPS generator has not yet been synced.
syncerr_eq_0 - Mark 5B 1 PPS is exactly coincident with the external 1 PPS.
syncerr_le_3 - Mark 5B 1 PPS is within +/-2 clock cycles (usually 94 ns)
               of the external 1 PPS.
syncerr_gt_3 - Mark 5B 1 PPS is more than +/-3 clock cycles (usually 94 ns)
               from the external 1 PPS.

The <syncerr_eq_0/le_3/gt_3> status report is only relevant provided
the selected external 1 PPS that was used to sync the Mark 5B remains
connected, selected, and active.  It indicates quantitatively the
current relationship between the Mark 5B 1 PPS and the external 1 PPS
to which the Mark 5B clock was originally synced.  Note that if the
external 1 PPS is asynchronous to the data clock (e.g. comes from a
GPS receiver), one would not expect that exact synchronization would
be maintained.

Systests VSI4 Support

This topic is not really relevant to Mark 5B operations, but is
included here since it is related.  A modified "systvsi4.prc"
procedure library that will work with the VSI4 board is included in
/usr2/fs/systests.  An existing installed "systests.prc" library can
be modified to support the VSI4 board by changing all strings
"pcalports=" to "vsi4=,".  No other changes are needed.  Please see
"/usr2/fs/systests/systests.txt" for complete "from scratch"
installation instructions for "systests".
