File: /usr2/fs/misc/tworecs.txt  Version: 0.3  Date: 050601

		       Two Tape Drive Operation

			      Ed Himwich


FS 9.5 and later versions include support for sequential use of two
drives. For this purpose each tape drive has a number "1" or "2". This
is true even for systems with a single tape drive. Any two
longitudinal reorders (Mark III, Mark IV, VLBA, VLBA2, VLBA4) may be
used together. At this time S2, K4, and Mark5 recorders may only be
used as tape drive 1, but (in the unlikely event that that anyone
would want to do it) a longitudinal recorder could be used as drive 2
with a S2, K4, or Mark5 recorder as drive 1. However, this mode should
be tested before being used in an experiment.

For a station with two recorders there are three possible
configurations in equip.ctl: (1) drive 1 is some specific drive type
and drive 2 is "none", (2) drive 1 is "none" and drive 2 is some
specific drive type, and (3) both drive 1 and drive 2 are specified as
some specific (not necessarily the same) drive types.

In case (3), the commands associated with the tape drives (including
head stack positioning commands) have either a "1" or "2" appended to
them to distinguish which drive they refer to. Likewise if DRUDG is
told that there are two tape drives it will appended the drive number
to the names of procedures that have drive specific commands; this
includes set-up and parity check procedures. However in cases (1) and
(2), the field system accepts only the traditional drive related
commands but applies them to the appropriate drive. This is true
regardless of whether the single recorder in use is drive 1 or drive
2. DRUDG will produce traditional procedures if it is told that there
is one recorder regardless of whether it is recorder 1 or recorder 2.

The four goals of this design are that: (1) single recorder operation
should not change in any significant way, (2) a station with two
recorders can use both for sequential recording during a schedule, (3)
the syntax allows for the possibility of future (but not yet
supported) simultaneous recorder use, and (4) a station with two
recorders, but that is using only one, can decide after DRUDG-ing
which of the two recorders to use, by changing equip.ctl. The latter
feature is intended to provide flexibility if there are problems with
one of the recorders.

One of the results of this design is that a second recorder can be
used to record a short schedule, such as an Intensive, that interrupts
a longer session without having to waste time dismounting and mounting
tapes (twice). The tape for the shorter session can be kept on the
second drive. When it is time to switch the longer schedule can be
stopped, the FS stopped, the equip.ctl control file changed to specify
use of the second drive, the FS restarted and the shorter schedule
started. A similar method can be used to switch back to the longer
schedule. Both the longer and short schedule in this case should be
handled in DRUDG as though there were only one recorder. The changing
of the control file can be automated with a script to reduce the
chances of an error and make the change more quickly.

When using DRUDG to generate the .SNP and .PRC files for a schedule,
the recorder configuration is determined from the skedf.ctl control
file if it is defined there. In any event, option (11) can be used to
override the default in the control file or the schedule. DRUDG and
the FS must agree on whether one or two recorders are in use. If not,
DRUDG will generate commands that the FS will not be able to
execute. Option (11) provides an "unused" choice for drive 1 and drive
2. The "unused" choice differs from "none" in that for "unused" DRUDG
will assume that the FS has two recorders defined, i.e. recorder
commands have "1" or "2" appended, but will only generate commands for
the drive that is not "unused". This may be useful if you don't want
to change your equip.ctl control when switching between drives. In
that case you must make the decision about which drive to use when you
run DRUDG. DRUDG provides a choice in option (11) to specify which
drive to start on when two drives are available and automatically
makes the choice for you if you forget.

A new command to support dual drive operation, "select", is
provided. This command is used to specify which drive is currently
being used for recording. You don't need to enter this command. The
appropriate command is placed in the set-up procedure automatically by
DRUDG. This command affects which drive chekr checks, controls the
"mount" inter-lock described below, and which recorder monitor output
is used if a VLBA rack is in use. Currently there is no hardware
mechanism for selecting the recorder monitor for Mark III, Mark IV, or
VLBA4 racks.

One of the things that sequential dual recorder use makes possible is
unattended tape changes. In fact the changes aren't unattended, but
one of the drives can be changed while the other is in use. An
operator then need not necessarily be present at the time when the
tape drive in use would change. To support this there is a new
"mountX" (X=1 or 2) command. This command provides a mechanism for
recording the tape label and loading the tape (if the recorder
supports automated loading). If the label is accepted it will execute
the experiment library version of the "mounterX" procedure that DRUDG
will have generated with appropriate contents for the specified type
of tape drive. Currently this procedure is empty except for VLBA and
VLBA4 drives. For non-VLBA/VLBA4 drives, the operator will need to
establish vacuum before entering the label as usual. When it becomes
time to use this tape, the "newtapeX" command in the "readyX"
procedure will detect that a new label has already been entered and
continue execution without waiting for an operator to input the
"labelX=..."  command. However, if the "mountX=..." command has not
been issued, it is assumed that a new tape is not mounted and the
schedule waits for the "labelX=..."  command. So the tape doesn't have
to be changed beforehand. Please note that as a safety feature, the
"mountX" command will not work for the tape currently specified by the
"select" command.

If you have a second recorder, a natural question to ask is: "since
only one drive is used at a time, can I use the other one to pre-pass
tapes?" It is possible, if you do not have a Mark IV/VLBA4 recorder or
if you have a Mark IV/VLBA4 recorder and only the first headstack is
being recorded with, but somewhat dangerous. There are two possible
approaches: (1) specify only one drive in the equip.ctl file and write
special SNAP procedures to control the other drive using low-level MAT
or MCB commands, or (2) always have two drives defined in the
equip.ctl file and use commands that control the drive not being
recorded with by the schedule. Option (2) seems less prone to
error. However, both approaches require a high degree of vigilance to
avoid accidently issuing a command that inappropriately addresses the
drive being used by the schedule. Making this mistake once would
probably be enough to convince you to never try prepassing with the
second drive during a schedule again. In any event, it not possible to
use the "prepass" procedure or any of its relatives since these
procedures start schedules to do a prepass. Doing so would interrupt
the execution of the observation schedule.
