1.0 Introduction

1.1 Purpose

Gnplt is a tool for displaying gain data. Gnplt uses a parsing program, 
gndat, to parse the log file and you can then select a number of 
different items to plot. The gain data, especially the gain curve and
the tcal vs. frequency table, can be updated in the control files. You
can also print the current plot.

1.2 Defintions




2.0 User guide

2.1 Getting started - opening a log file

To start gnplt, simply type gnplt at the command prompt. There are two
ways of opening a log file. One is to give the lgofile as a command line
parameter when starting gnplt. To do this type

gnplt yourlogdirectory/yourlogfile.log

at the command prompt. Another way to open a log file is to select the 
"New" menu item in the "File" menu. A window will open, labeled "Open
new FS log file". The default log file directory will be /usr2/log/ and
this is where your log file should be. If you want another directory,
you will have to select it in the window, or type in the directory 
explicitly.

If you have selected a valid log file, gnplt will now parse the log file
by running gndat. After this is done, all the menus will be set up and
the statusbar should say "Ready.". On lsower machines this might take 
some time.

Now it will be possible to select the two axes. Please select both axes
before plotting. To actually display teh data on the screen, you need
to press the "Replot" button under the "Edit" menu. There is also a 
keyboard shortcut for replotting, just press 'r' and the screen replots
automatically.

2.2 Selecting sources and frequencies - the Edit menu

Very rarely will you want to see all the observations at the same time.
To select specific sources and frequencies, please use the "Edit" menu.

2.2.1 Source selection

On the "Source" submenu of the "Edit" menu there are a lot of different
options you can use to plot exactly what you want. There are three 
command buttons, "All", "All Calibrators", "All Calibrators & Pointing".
By pressing one of these buttons you will automatically select all 
sources, just the calibrators and just the calibraotrs and the pointing
sources respectively.

If you want a more specific selection, all sources are listed as well as
all the times that source was observed. To make individual source 
selection faster, there is also "All" and "None" buttons for each source.

When you are done with your selection, you have to replot again, either
using the button on the "Edit" menu or pressing 'r'.



