1.0 Introduction

1.1 Purpose

Gnplt is a tool for displaying antenna gain data. Gnplt uses a parsing 
program, gndat, to parse the log file and you can then select a number 
of different items to plot. The gain data, especially the gain curve, the
DPFU and the TCal vs. frequency table, can be updated in the control 
files. You can also print the current plot.

1.2 Definitions

1.2.1 .rxg working file 

When gnplt starts, it looks for the right .rxg control files in the 
/usr2/control directory. These control files are copied to working
files so that you don't overwrite the real ones by accident. It also 
allows you to make multiple changes in one gnplt session without updating 
the real files until the end of the session. If you have updated the 
working files when you exit gnplt, you will have the option to overwrite
 the real .rxg control files. Should you decline, the .rxg control files 
remains the same as they were when you started gnplt. Should you accept, 
gnplt will write the information from the working file to the real one, 
preserving the old data by commenting it out.

2.0 User guide

2.1 Getting started - the 'File' menu

2.1.1 Opening a log file 

To start gnplt, simply type gnplt at the command prompt. There are two
ways of opening a log file. One is to give the log file as a command line
parameter when starting gnplt. To do this type

gnplt yourlogdirectory/yourlogfile.log

at the command prompt. Another way to open a log file is to select the 
"New" menu item in the "File" menu. A window will open, labeled "Open
new FS log file". The default log file directory will be /usr2/log/ and
this is where your log file should be. If you want another directory,
you will have to select it in the window, or type in the directory 
explicitly.

If you have selected a valid log file, gnplt will now parse the log file
by running gndat. After this is done, all the menus will be set up and
the status bar should say "Ready.". On slower machines and with older 
versions of tcl/tk, this might take some time.

Now it will be possible to select the two axes. Please select both axes
before plotting. To actually display the data on the screen, you need
to press the "Replot" button under the "Edit" menu. There is also a 
keyboard shortcut for replotting, just press 'r' and the screen replots
automatically.

2.1.2 Selecting the axes - The 'Items' menus

Before you can plot anything you need to set the X and Y axes. On the
'X-axis' menu you have four different options: Time, Elevation, Frequency
and Azimuth. This should be enough for most users. Instructions of how to
add more items to the 'X-axis' menu can be found in the "Implementation"
part of this user manual.

The 'Y-axis' menu consists of three different parts. First there are the 
standard items from the log file. Then, there is the "Assumed Items" 
cascaded menu. This is the information from the .rxg control file(s). If
you plot an assumed item, you might see an error message on the status bar.
If you for example only have one DPFU value in the control file the lower 
and upper limits of the Y-axis will be the same, and gnplt does not 
accept this. Gnplt will continue to run normally after this though, you
just have to select something else to plot.

Finally, there is a cascade menu on the Y-axis that says "Gain" and has
three options. "TCal(K) from control file", "TCal(K) from user input" 
and "Specify Gain for elevation range". The difference between the three
gain options is how the gain is calculated. The first option uses the 
information in the .rxg working file to calculate the gain. The second 
option allows the user to enter a TCal(K) value, and divides this number 
by the TCal(Jy) at each point and thus gets the gain. The third option 
lets the user specify the gain for a range of elevations. Gnplt then 
scales the gain from the control file with a scale factor that is 
calculated by dividing the user specified gain with the average gain 
in the elevation range specified.

On the 'Gain' submenu there is also a cascaded menu 'Correction' which 
allows the user to scale the gain by a scale factor and thus get a 
better gain curve for example. This is supposed to be used for higher 
frequency data. When selecting "Correct for opacities", the gain is 
scaled by the factor exp(tau) which depends on among other things Tsys
and Trec. To have a correct value of Trec is important so if you need to,
you can obtain a new value of Trec by doing the fitting, explained in 
section 2.5.3. If you have corrected for opacities, a message will
appear at the top of the plotting window.

When you have selected your axes you will have to replot. This is done
either by pressing 'r' on your keyboard, or by pressing the "Replot" 
button on the 'Edit' menu. For more info on this, especially automatic
replotting, please see section 2.2.3.

2.1.3 Printing

On the 'File' menu there is an command button "Print" which allows you
to print the current plot. Plots are printed in the encapsulated 
postscript (eps) format. If you select destination "printer", the "lpr"
command will be used to print the plot. If you select destination "File",
the postscript output will be saved in the file specified in the 
"Filename" entry field. If you do not specify a directory, the current
directory is used as default.

2.1.4 Changing file names - The I/O window

Under the 'File' menu there is a command button labeled "I/O Setup".
This opens up a window where you can change the names of the files that
gnplt creates. You can also change the default log file directory and
the control file directory. Normally you will not need to change these 
file names. The files are deleted shortly after they are created. The 
only file that exists for a longer period of time is the "Output file 
for gndat". This is the parsed file that contains the data that gnplt 
needs from the log file. It ends with the process ID so that multiple 
copies of gnplt can be run at the same time. 

If you make changes to the file names, the changes will only effect the
current gnplt session. If you start gnplt again, the changes will be
discarded. 

2.2 Selecting sources and frequencies - the 'Edit' menu

Very rarely will you want to see all the observations in the log file 
at the same time. To select specific sources and frequencies, please 
use the "Edit" menu. Please note that if you select one source or
frequency, and then select another one, both will be displayed unless
you deselect the first one. This allows you to display multiple sources
and frequencies without displaying all of them.

2.2.1 Source selection

On the "Source" sub menu of the "Edit" menu there are a lot of different
options you can use to plot exactly what you want. There are four 
command buttons, "All", "All Calibrators", "All Calibrators & Pointing"
and "None". By pressing one of these buttons you will automatically select 
all sources, just the calibrators, just the calibrators and the 
pointing sources respectively, or no sources at all.

If you want a more specific selection, all sources are listed as well as
all the times that source was observed. To make individual source 
selection faster, there is also "All" and "None" buttons for each source.
Hint: If you have a lot of sources, and only want to see one of them, 
select "None", and then select the specific source you want to see.

When you are done with your selection, you have to replot again, either
using the button on the "Edit" menu or pressing 'r'.

2.2.2 Polarization selection

There are two choices on the 'Edit' menu, left and right polarization.
By default all frequencies for both polarizations are selected. On each
of the two cascaded menus there are three command buttons, any number of
LO buttons, and finally check buttons for all the frequencies in the log 
file for that polarization. 

The command buttons are "All", "No Left"/"No Right" (depending on what 
menu you currently are viewing) and "No Left or Right". They will select 
all the frequencies for the polarization, no frequencies for the 
polarization, and no frequencies for both polarizations respectively. 

The number of LO buttons depends on how many LOs is in your log file. 
Clicking them will select only frequencies associated with that LO, 
and deselect all other frequencies for that polarization as well as all 
the frequencies for the other polarization.

With the check buttons for each frequency you can switch individual
frequencies on and off.

2.2.3 Resetting the plot

Sometimes you might want to "start over" again and instead of having to
reselect all the points there are two options of resetting the current
plot. This also usually works if you don't get the plot you expected.
The two options for resetting are "Include all for this selection" and 
"Include all points in log". The one you normally want is the first one, 
since it remembers your source, polarization and frequency selections.
You can select this option by either clicking the button on the 'Edit'
menu or by using its keyboard shortcut, 's'. The second option makes all
the points in the log file appear on the screen, and will show all the
sources and all the frequencies for both polarizations.

2.2.4 Editing out bad data based on Gain Compression

There is an easy way for you to edit out "bad" data based on the gain
compression. If you click the command button "Delete points with bad GC"
a window opens where you can choose what "bad" data actually means. 

2.2.5 Replotting

When you have changed the selection you will have to replot. This is
done by either pressing the replot button on the 'Edit' menu, or simply
by pressing 'r' on the keyboard. If you start gnplt with the flag '-r'
on the command line, gnplt will automatically replot when you change the
axes. This flag can be changed when the gnplt is open, on the cascaded
menu 'Auto Replot' found on the 'Edit' menu. Please note that this only
effects the replotting when changing the axes. If you change your source
selection or frequency selection, you still will have to replot.

2.3 'Edit' menu Shortcuts

For faster editing and selection there are two types of shortcuts on the 
'Edit' menu. Gain vs. Elevation shortcut and TCal vs. Frequency shortcut.
These are very convenient, and easy to use. Note that once you have used
the shortcut to plot something, you can modify using the standard menu
options. 

2.3.1 Gain vs. Elevation shortcut

The Gain vs. Elevation shortcut has three levels of cascaded menus. The 
first level is which polarization you want. On the second level you select
what source you want, you have also the option of selecting all sources.
The third one consists of the different frequencies for the selected 
polarization. When you click a frequency, gnplt automatically sets the 
axes and replots. Note also that this shortcut computes the gain according
to your selection on the Y-axis menu.

2.3.2 TCal vs. Frequency shortcut

The TCal vs. Frequency shortcut also has three levels of cascaded menus.
The first and the second are the same as for the Gain vs. Elevation 
shortcut, but the third one is different. It consists of the LOs that 
are in the log file for that polarization. When selecting one of the LOs
and gnplt automatically sets the axes, selects the correct frequencies 
and thereafter replots.

2.4 The 'Source' and 'Frequencies' menus - Highlighting

2.4.1 Highlighting sources

All the sources in the log file will be displayed as radio buttons on the
'Source' menu. There is also a radio button for "All" sources, which is 
the default. When you click on one of the radio buttons, all the points
for that source will turn black. When you replot or select "All" the
points will turn white again.

Also on the 'Source' menu there is a cascaded menu for how the points
will be displayed. There are three different options, "Points", "Letters"
and "Points and Letters". The third one is the default one. "Points"
will remove the letter next to the point that indicates what source the
point corresponds to. "Letters" will display just the source letter in
the same position that the point would normally be. "Points and Letter"
will display the point, and just next to it the source letter will be 
shown. Note that there is a box just right of the plotting area, 
indicating which source each letter is associated with.

2.4.2 Highlighting frequencies

On the 'Frequency' menu, all the frequencies that are currently plotted
will be displayed as radio buttons. The highlighting of frequencies works
just as the highlighting of sources. Note that if you have highlighted a
source, and then highlight a frequency, all the points with that source
and that frequency will be highlighted. 

2.5 The 'Tools' menu

The Tools menu will consists of different options depending on the 
selection of the axes. There are four cases: Gain vs. Elevation,
TCal(K) vs. Frequency, Tsys-Tspill vs. Airmass, and finally if Gain 
Compression or TCal Ratio is selected as the Y-axis.

2.5.1 Gain vs. Elevation - Tools menu

If you plot Gain vs. Elevation, and have only one polarization and one LO
selected, the 'Tools' will consist of the following: Two check buttons
which displays/removes the gain curve from the working file and the fitted
gain curve respectively. A cascade menu with fitting options, a command 
button, "Update working file", which will update the .rxg working file 
with the current fitting results.

The check button "Gain Curve in working file" will display/delete the gain
curve in the .rxg working file. When displayed, the curve will be shown
in green and it will be thicker than normal. The check button "Fitted Gain
Curve" will indicate whether the fitted gain curve, display in black, is
shown or not. You will be able to delete the fitted curve by unchecking
the box, but to display it you will have to refit.

On the cascade menu there are three different fitting options. The button
"New DPFU" will use the existing gain curve in the .rxg working file and 
calculate a new DPFU for the current polarization. What this option does
is that it takes the gain at each point divides this by the gain curve
value at each point, and then averages over all points. This average is
the new DPFU.

The button "Gain curve and DPFU" updates both the gain curve and the DPFU. 
When you press the radio button a dialog will appear. In that box you will 
be able to select the degree of the gain polynomial and the type of the 
gain curve (ELEV or ALTAZ). Gnplt uses a program for this fitting option 
called gnfit. Gnfit gets an input file from gnplt, consisting of the 
polynomial degree of the gain curve, the type of gain curve (ELEV/ALTAZ) 
and a table of the gain and the elevation at each point. Gnfit then 
returns an output file consisting of the result of the fitting (DPFU and
gain polynomial).

The button "Scale TCal(K)" scales the TCal(K) table in the .rxg file 
using a calculated scale factor. The factor is the average of the gain 
divided by the DPFU times the gain curve, averaged over all the points.

After selecting which fitting option to use, gnplt will do the fitting
and show the fitted gain curve on the screen. If the gain curve is 
outside the current range, gnplt will change the y-axis limits so that
the new gain curve fits the screen.

The command button "Update Working File" will update the .rxg working
file with the results of the last fit. After each fit, the fitting
results will be shown at the bottom of the 'Tools' menu, starting with
the RMS/DPFU ratio followed by the DPFU and at the bottom the gain 
polynomial coefficients with the coefficient for the lowest degree
first. After updating the file, the fitted gain curve(s) will be deleted
and the last fitted curve will turn green, since it is now the curve in
the .rxg working file.

2.5.2 TCal(K) vs. Frequency - Tools menu

When you select TCal(K) vs. Frequency to be plotted, the 'Tools' menu 
consists of two check buttons, a cascaded menu and a command button. The
check buttons displays/removes the TCal curve that is in the .rxg working
file and the fitted curve respectively. They basically work in just the 
same way as the check buttons for the gain curve do. On the cascade menu, 
"Fit for TCal(K)", there are two options, "Average at each freq." and 
"Median at each freq.". If you choose the first one, gnplt will average 
the TCal(K) value at each frequency and then draw a line between these 
points. If you choose the second one, gnplt will instead use the median 
value at each frequency, taking the average of the two middle points, 
should there be an even number of points. Once you are satisfied with 
the fit, you press the command button "Update .rxg working file", and 
gnplt will store the results in the .rxg working file. The fitted curves
are then deleted and the curve resulting from the last fit will turn 
green.

2.5.3 Tsys-Tspill vs. Airmass - Tools menu

When this plot is selected the 'Tools' menu will consist of two check
buttons for turning the Trec markers on, two command buttons for 
calculating a new Trec, and finally a command button for updating the
workign file.

The first checkbutton turns the Trec from the .rxg working file on. If 
it is off limits, gnplt will display a message on the status bar, with
the value of the Trec from the file. The second one toggles the fitted
Trec values on/off. If there is no fitted value a message will appear on
the status bar. The value from the .rxg working file will be shown as
a green circle, in accordance with the green TCal and Gain curves.

To fit a new Trec value, you click the button "Fit for Trec" and then
you select a time interval. The total time interval for the selected
data is also shown. Gnplt then uses gnfit to calculate new values for 
Trec and for Tau0. The curve, Tsys-Tspill=Trec+Tatm(1-exp(-Tau0*Airmass))
is the plotted for each of the intervals. (If the selected data is 
collected during 12 hours, and you select a two hour interval, six 
curves are drawn). The Trec is then the point where the curve intercepts 
the Y-axis. Gnplt calculates the weighted mean of the points, and marks 
this on the Y-axis, both as a point and as a numerical value. If you 
want to delete a Trec point from the calculation, you can click on it,
just as you would do for a normal data point. If you have deleted any
points, you can recalculate a new weighted mean by pressing the button
"Recalculate Trec" on the 'Tools' menu.

When you are satisfied with the fit, you can update the .rxg working
file by pressing the button on the 'Tools' menu. 

2.5.4 Gain Compression and TCal Ratio - Tools menu

If you have selected either Gain Compression or TCal Ratio as your 
X-axis, the 'Tools' menu will consist of a check button with the label
"Draw line at 1". When checked, this will draw a line at unity. To 
support old log files, if the compression values seem to be around 100, 
the line will drawn there rather than at 1. Unchecking the box or 
replotting will delete the line.


2.6 The 'Scaling' menu

The scaling menu controls the conditions on which the limits of the 
X-axis and the Y-axis is set. The default is to autoscale the points
that have been selected on the 'Edit' menu, but gnplt also allows you to
set your own limits manually. It also has two command buttons for 
"resetting" the plot.

2.6.1 Autoscaling

There are two different types of autoscaling, "Autoscale not including
deleted" and "Autoscale including deleted". For both options, gnplt will
set the axes' limits depending on what has been selected/deselected on 
the 'Edit' menu. If you choose to include deleted points, all points 
matching your selection will be used for calculating the axes' limits.
If you choose not to, the points that are deleted (as described below),
will not be taken into account.

If you want a certain point exempt from the autoscaling (and basically 
all other operations as well), you can click on it, and it will turn red,
indicating that it is deleted. If you have a group of points that you want 
exempt from autoscaling, you can draw a box around them using your right 
mouse button, and they will also turn red. After you've done with this, 
you have to click the on of the radio buttons on the 'Scaling' menu for 
the autoscaling to actually take place. If you have clicked on a point 
but want it "back", you can just click on it again and it turns back to 
white. If you have a group of points you want "back", you draw a box 
around them using your middle mouse button. These instructions can also 
be found, by pressing the command button "Shortcuts", under the 'Help' 
menu.

2.6.2 Manual scaling

To select manual scaling you click the radio button on the 'Scaling' 
menu, and a window opens. The current limits are shown, and you can
change whichever you want. If you select "bad" limits, i.e limits where
the maximum is smaller than the minimum, you will get an error message.
Once you are satisfied with the values, press "Ok" and gnplt will
automatically replot.

2.7 Miscellaneous

2.7.1 Deleting points outside the plot

If you want all the points outside the current limits deleted, you can
easily do this by clicking the command button "Delete points outside 
plot" on the 'Edit' menu. For example, when fitting TCal vs. Frequency,
you might only want to update a certain part of the table in the .rxg 
working file. This option allows you to do that.

2.7.2 The information box next to the plot

The box next to the plot shows information on how many points have been 
highlighted, included, selected and finally how many total tpoints there 
were in the log. Highlighted points are points that have been highlighted
using the 'Source' and the 'Frequency' menus. Selected points are those 
that fit the selection the user has made on the 'Edit' menu. Points that 
are selected, and not are deleted (clicked on) are called included points.

2.8 Command line options and shortcuts.

Note that the shortcuts can be found on the 'Help' menu in the top right
corner of the screen.

2.8.1 Command line options

There are two different command line options. You can either start gnplt
with the flag '-r', with the name of a log file, or both. The flag '-r'
will make gnplt automatically replot if you change one of the axis. Note
that this will NOT effect the way replotting is done when you change the
source, polarization or frequency selection. If you change one of those
selections, you still will have to press the "Replot" button on the 
'Edit' menu, or use the keyboard shortcut, 'r'.

The other command line option is the name of a log file you want 
displayed. Gnplt will then automatically run the parsing program and you
will be able to start selecting sources, polarization, frequencies, axes
etc. right away.

If you use both shortcuts, please not that you will have to set the flag
before you enter the log name, i.e.

gnplt -r /usr2/log/mylog.log

2.8.2 Keyboard shortcuts

There are three different keyboard shortcuts. 'r' will replot, 'q' will
exit gnplt, asking you if you want to save the information in the control
files if you have updated them, and finally, 's' will "turn on" all 
points that have been "clicked away" or that are off limits, and replot 
again.

2.8.3 Mouse editing and shortcuts

If you want to "delete" a point from autoscaling, calculations etc. you
can click on it and it will turn red. If you have a group of points that 
you want "deleted" you can draw a box around them using your right mouse
button, and they will also turn red. If you have clicked on a point but 
want it "back", you can just click on it again and it turns back to white. 
If you have a group of points you want "back", you draw a box around 
them using your middle mouse button. If you press the 'Shift' key while
"deleting" a point, all the observations at that time will be "deleted".

If you press and hold the left mouse button, and then drag the pointer,
a box will open. When you release the left button, this box will set the 
new min/max limits of the plot and gnplt will replot.

While the mouse pointer is over a point the information for that point
will be displayed in the info box on the right side of the plot. If you
right click when over a point, a line is drawn connecting the points 
with the same source and time/frequency. If you have selected frequency 
as your X-axis, the points with the same source and time will be 
connected. If you have selected anything else as your X-axis, the points 
with the same source and frequency will be connected.

3.0 Implementation

In this section some possible modifications to the gnplt source code
are discussed. The relationship between the three different programs,
gnplt, gndat and gnfit are also explained. If you are not completely 
sure what you are doing, don't change the source code, since doing so
will probably do more harm than good.

3.1 Adding items to the X and Y axes menus

Normally there are only three options on the 'X-axis' menu. However, the 
implementation of gnplt does not prevent you from adding more items to 
this menu. If you want to do this, you will have to edit the source code 
yourself. The variable that controls this is named "xitemlist" and can be
found in the initializing section in the beginning of the code. Just make
sure that what you add is typed in exactly as it is printed out in the
parsed file. If you fail to do so, this will generate an error. 

Adding or deleting items from the 'Y-axis' menu is done in similar 
fashion. The variable that contains the different items is now called
"yitemlist".

3.2 Changing default file names, directories etc.

In the beginning of the source code, there is an initializing section 
where default values for certain variables are set. If you want to
change the default values for the log file directory or the control
file directory for example, this is where you should look. Just make
a search for "/usr2/control" or "/usr2/log" and you should find the
right line to change. This is also where you can change the default
file names.

3.3 The relationship between gnplt, gndat and gnfit

Gnplt is the program the user runs, it is the program where the data is
displayed, and where most operations are performed. However, two other
programs, gndat and gnfit, are used by gnplt. 

Gndat reads the log file and creates a parsed output file with the 
information that is relevant to gnplt. Gndat takes four arguments: the 
log file, the name of the output file, the process id and the control 
file directory. If an error has not occurred, gnplt returns the name
of the output file. If an error has occurred, gnplt returns an error
message which gnplt displays on the status bar.

Gnfit performs the gain curve fitting. It receives an input file with
the degree of the gain curve polynomial, the gain curve type (ELEV/ALTAZ)
and a table with the gain and elevation data for the points that the 
fitting is based upon. It returns a file with the results of the fit,
that is the gain curve polynomial, the DPFU, the RMS and how many 
iterations the fitting needed.






