(please excuse the odd notation)

Assumed values by ONOFF:
TCAL(K), FLUXsource, (gain curve), DPFU (degrees per flux unit)

Calculated by ONOFF:
SEFD=TSYS(Jy)=FLUXsource*(TPsky-TPzero)/(TPsource-TPsky)
TSYS(K)=(TPsky-TPzero)*TCAL(k)/(TPcal-TPsky)
TCAL(Jy)=(TPcal-TPsky)*FLUXsource/(TPsource-TPsky)
Measured TCAL(K)=DPFU*TCAL(Jy)*(gain curve)
CALratio=(Measured TCAL(K))/(Assumed TCAL(K))*100
Gain compression =
100*(ONSOURCE:(TPICAL-TPsky))/(OFFSOURCE:(TPICAL-TPsky))
Do we need source/cal and Shaffer number any more? NO

ONOFF Record format:
xxxxxxxxx1xxxxxxxxx2xxxxxxxxx3xxxxxxxxx4xxxxxxxxx5xxxxxxxxx6xxxxxxxxx7xxxxxxxxx8      
12345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123
iii ssssssssss aaa.a ee.e dd i p mmmmmmm.m gg.gg tt.tt ffff.f ccc.ccc
z.zzz rr.rr

iii        = VAL or RMS
ssssssssss = source name (10 chars enough?)
aaa.a        azimuth
ee.e         elevation
dd           detector
i            if channel: 1,2,3,a,b,c,d
p            polarization "l" or "r"
mmmmmm.m     center sky frequency in MHz
gg.gg        gain compression (percent)
tt.tt        tsys(K)
ffff.f       SEFD
ccc.ccc      TCAL(Jy), cal/src for variable sources
z.zzz        measured Tcal(K)
rr.rr        Cal ratio (percent)

Output will be grouped in order of LCP the RCP, then by sky frequency.
RMS lines will come out first as a block and then VAL lines as a block.

If the source has no defined flux,   a flux of 1 Jy will be assumed and
the values of SEFD, Tcal(jy), Tcal(k), and cal ratio will be negative

ONOFF will also output APR record of a priori information (input values, etc)
and SIG record of calculated 1 sigma formal errors in VAL records

By the way:
TCAL(Jk)*(gain curve) is flat versus elevation 
DPFU=TSYS(K)/(TSYS(JK)*Gain curve)
    =(TCAL(K)/(TPcal-TPsky))*((TPsource-TPsky)/((gain curve)*FLUXsource)
gain curve is unitless since K/Jy in DPFU
gain curve is assumed to be the same for both polarization
DPFU and Tcal(k) may be different for each pol.
Gain= Assumed Tcal(k)/Tcal(Jy)

0. External program "gndta" is used to extract the data from the log
   and produce the flat file that will be read by "gnplt". The file
   will be in two sections. The first will have a list of labels
   for the quantities in the table. The second will be the table.
   The quantities in the table will be:
   date/time, source detector, if channel, polarization, sky
   frequency, azimuth, elevation Tsys, SEFD, TPICAL-TPI,
   gain compression {recalculated: Tcalratio, Tcal(k),
   Gain}, {observed: Tcalratio, Tcal(K)},
   {assumed: Tcal(k), source flux, Gain, gain
   curve, DPFU*gain curve}
   This program will have a "recalculate" recalculated quantities
   so that the log doesn't have to be re-read each time the assumed
   quantities are updated
I. New program: gnplt, three major display sections: Items vs time,
   Items vs. elevation, Items vs. freq, operates on user selected
   log file. In some cases, the plot program must run "gndta"
   program (transparently to the user) to calculate items
    0. Common elements of plots:
       1. plot a or all frequencies (some detectors may be used for
          more than one frequency) each has separate letter, select
          by first LO (for dual or more band) then sky frequency
       2. plot a, all primary calibrators, or all sources,
          each has separate letter (CAPs?)
       3. able to highlight one source or detector
       4. Pull down menus for freq and source selection
       5. Source selection menu for primary calibrators
       6. Auto-scaling by default, manual scaling available
       7. Delete/undelete points, autoscale ignores deleted
       8. Plot all quantities as described for Roman numeral "0",
          "gndta"
   A. Items versus time
       1. Plot standards items versus time
       2. default display is recalculated tcalratio versus time
          for first detector
   B. Items vs elevation
       1. Plot standard items versus elevation, plus
       2. Item: for recalculated Gain, user can optionally select
          one of three origins for Tcal(k): (i) from control files,
          (ii) user input, (iii) specify expected K/Jy for some
          range of elevations
       3. for Gain special interactive tools (with a given
          frequency choice, new frequency choice resets all):
          0. add existing gain curve to plot, include statistics about
             the level of agreement, offset, RMS, etc?
          a. Select a starting source, deferred for now
          b. Select variable calibrators to be adjusted with
             an scale factor relative to starting source, deferred
          c. Select sources for no offset (for primary calibrators),
             deferred
          d. Select sources
          e. fitting options, fit selected source skip deleted
             points, after each fit, plot residuals, fit types,
             default order:
             (i) adjust for new DPFU, assumes TCal(k) and gain are
                 okay
             (ii) fit for gain curve and DPFU, external program fits
                  a polynomial (to user selected degree default 4,
                  versus el or ZA or other dependence) to resulting
                  set of selected sources (ignore those not selected
                  and deleted points), normalized to 1.0 at peak,
                  DPFU is maximum K/Jy at gain curve=1.0 point
             (iii) adjust TCal(k) to make data lie on exisiting curve,
                  assumes exisiting Tcal(k) is wrong by a scale factor
          f. option to write fit parameters to file,
             CALRX sets LO value or frequency range, and file name
             dialogue to override default, 
          g. if TCal(k) was adjusted then the exisiting table is
             scaled by new value/old value
          h. is only one DPFU
             calculated, check that this okay before writing
       4. Two passes one for DPFU and gain curve for one polarization
          and then second pass for DPFU for second pol (different
          detectors)
       5. Rename log file after updating gain and DPFU
       6. default display: first detector, all sources
       7. Option (deferred for now) to fit opacities to correct gain
          curve.
    C. item versus freq
       1. Plot standard items versus freq, plus
       2. For Tcal(k) and Tcalratio plots mark location of
          exisiting Tcal(K) table entries on plot, include statistics
          about the level of agreement, offset, RMS, etc?
       3. source selection includes time of observation, more
          than one time possible and also all times for this source
       4. Update Tcal(k) in file from Tcal(k) display
          using values, averages for each point if more than one
          point in time is being displayed for this source
       5. Update Tcal(k) in file from display of Tcalratio (DEFERRED):
          a. graphically select bins to update
          b. average over data in bin and make new table
          c. plot data relative to new table
          d. iterate if necessary
          e. option to delete ranges graphically
          f. allow user to update Tcal(k) in file
       6. Default display recalculated TCALratio for first source
          on first pol.
II. Control files indexed by LO settings, three types, RX parameters,
    gain curve, and TCal/frequency, independent files to ease keep
    updating modular.
    0. When a file is update the old values are added to the
       top and old values commented out
    A. RX & Gain parameters: *.rxg
       1. LO Range and two possible fixed values
       2. Revision date
       3. Polarizations: LCP, RCP, both
       4. Beamwidth (versus freq with scale factor or constant)
       5. DPFU LCP, DPFU RCP
       6. gain curve
       7. Tcal versus freq table LCP, RCP
       9. Set-up procedure for this LO,
          execute for each LO= command (deferred)
       9. Cal-on proc (deferred)
       10. Cal-off proc (deferred)
    B. precedence of files
       The concept will be that files are allowed to specify any number
       of LO ranges and off specific values (no one can appear more
       than once)
       If an LO= command value matches a range and a specific value, the
       specific value takes precedence, a narrower range takes
       precedence over a wider range
    C. RX dependent pointing models in a similiar style? (deferred)
    D. Tpickup as a function of elevation (deferred)

III. source flux tables by source, flux.ctl
      1. Flux with functional dependance from John's subroutine
         with same functional dependences
      2. Current FS structure models available
      3. Entry to identify primary calibrator or variables
      4. Files provided with FS but station specific

IV. New SNAP commands:
    A. CALRX=<file_name>,<lo ranges and values>
1. <file_name> prefix for names in section II
       2. <lo ranges and values> for first lines in files of 
          section II
       3. To record book-keeping information during acquisition
V. Use
   A. Initial Set-up
      1. A station would need to set-up the *.rxg files for each RX.
      The tcal vs freq tables can by one constant for each RX with as much
      resolution as available.
      endpoint and a constant value for each band.
      2. There could be one or two aquir set-ups per *.rxg, for gain curve
         measurements, one for Tcal(k) versus freq, CALRX definitions
         should match between gain curve and Tcal(k) versus freq
         set-ups.
         a Gain aquir set-up
           i. Set VCs, LO, and patching for band
           ii. Set CALRX information for use during analysis
           iii. Provide list of useful sources for band
           iv. includes both polarization
         b. Tcal(k) versus freq
           0. Use multiple entries for a source with differnt VC
              settings to get higher frequency resolution
           i. Set VCs, LO, and patching for band
           ii. Set CALRX inormation for use during analysis
           iii. Provide list of useful sources for band
           iv. includes both polarization
         c. combined set-up with extra gain set-up for each source plus
            additional tcal versus freq entires for density
      3. Set DPFU to Tsys/SEFD (or 1.0) and gain curve to unity
   B. Acquisition
      1. For gain curves, take several hours of data with ONOFF run
         after peaking up on each source. A new logfile is used for
         each gain curve determination.
      2. For Tcal(k) versus frequency for a few sources, after peaking
         One logfile is used for each band, should be renamed
         periodically, each session? after a new gain curve is
         determined anyway in gnplt.
   C. Analysis
      1. Gain curves: run gnplt, reduce data, update *.gain files if
         needed
      2. Tcal(k) versus frequency: run gnplt, reduce data, update
         *.tcal files.
      3. File names and LO ranges/values generate use CALRX entered
         in log to simplify user book-keeping
      4. how apply scaling?

VI. Logging of DPFU, gain, and Tcal(k) versus freuquency
    1. The first time an LO is specified by command in a log since it
       was opened, this information will be recorded for the used
       RX IFs.
