DRUDG Release Notes
2013-Jan-23

On startup the DRUDG version date should say 2013Jan23.

The major changes in this version of DRUDG are list below. For most 
fixes I list the files that were changed to make the change. Files
are listed with respect to the drudg source directory.

1.  Support for DBBC.  This version of DRUDG provides support for the
    DBBC in DDC mode.  The DBBC is now a valid rack type.  This
    involved changes to many DRUDG routines and some new routines.
    Affected files: procs.f
    New files: check_dbbc_freqs.f, check_dbbc_setup.f, proc_dbbc_bbc.f, 
    proc_lba_ifp.f, proc_lo.f, proc_mracks_vc.f, proc_vc.f,
    proc_vc_cmd.f, proc_vracks_bbc.f, 

2.  AutoFTP_ABORT_TIME skedf.ctl parameter added to $MISC section.
    The user can now specify a maximum time for disk2file operations
    to be aborted (in case they did not terminate on time).  Normally,
    the abort would be issued just before the next scan.  However, if
    the next scan would be a long time in the future, there may be a
    long delay before the abort.  With the new parameter, a maximum
    time can be set after which the abort will be guaranteed to be
    issued.  If the user does not specify an abort time DRUDG will use
    300 seconds.
    Affected files: drudg_rdctl.f, snap.f, ../skdrincl/data_xfer.ftni

3.  Better support for phase referencing.  When observing
    phase-reference scans, there should not be a setup procedure,
    PREOB, or POSTOB between the scans.  DRUDG has no way of
    explicitly knowing a session is phase-reference.  However, in
    phase referencing experiments the scheduler switches back and
    forth between two near-by sources without turning off recording.
    Hence DRUDG assumes that the scans are phase-referencing if 1) the
    recorder is running and 2) it is a VEX schedule.  Previously DRUDG
    would omit the setup procedure and PREOB procedure between the
    scans.  It now also omits the POSTOB procedure.  
    Affected files: snap.f.

4.  More scans allowed.  The limit on the number of scans in a
    schedule was increased to 20,000. 
    Affected files: skdrincl/skparm.ftni

5.  Fixed 24:00:00 bug.  There was a bug in SKED which would
    occasionally produce scans with a time-tag of 24:00:00 which is
    not a valid DRUDG time-tag.  SKED was modified so that this should
    not happen, and DRUDG was modified to handle this case correctly. 
    Affected files: unpsk.f     

6.  Handling of smaller powers of two.  For Mark5A recorders the
    minimum number of tracks recorded is 8.  For Mark5B this is not
    the case, and DRUDG was modified to handle recording for smaller
    powers of including 1, 2, 4. 
    Affected files: proc_mk5b_tracks.f

7.  Separating of skedf.ctl reading routines for DRUDG and SKED.
    Previously DRUDG and SKED used the same routines to read the
    configuration file skedf.ctl.  This meant that if extra variables
    were put into skedf.ctl that either program needed, both programs
    needed to be modified even if they both did not require the data.
    This situation has been modified so that DRUDG and SKED now have
    their own routines. Both DRUDG and SKED will ignore items in
    skedf.ctl that they do not understand. 
    Affected files: fdrudg.f
    New file:  drudg_rdctl.f

8.  Global read and write permission on all files DRUDG creates.
    DRUDG now set's the permissions so all users can read and write
    the files that it produces.
    Affected files: drchmod.f 

9.  Label first character bug.  In some releases of DRUDG, DRUDG 'ate'
    the first character of the session name when it was producing
    labels. This required users to write in the tape label command by
    hand. This has been fixed.
    Affected files: lablog.f   

10. VEX is now a default file type. The user no longer has to specify
    the '.vex' extension explicitly.  If no file extension is given
    DRUDG will try first to open a '.skd' file.  If it does not find
    one it will then try to open a '.vex' file.
    Affected files: fdrudg.f

11. TPICD bug. Drudg now writes out the TPICD for all rack types.
    Affected files: snap.f 

12. Bug in Equipment override in 'command line mode'.  DRUDG has an
    undocumented 'command line mode' where you can give it a schedule, 
    filename, and command number and DRUDG will execute the appropriate
    command and stop. For example:   
       drudg r1453.skd tc 12
    Will produe the PRC files for TC and exit.
    In previous releases DRUDG would ignore the equipment_override 
    option in command line mode. It now has the same behavior in
    interactive and command line mode.  
    Affected files: fdrudg.f    

13. More forgiving behavior for unknown recorder types.  Previously 
    DRUDG would quit with an error if it doesn't recognize the 
    recorder type. It now sets the recorder type to 'unknown' and
    continues on. 
    Affected files: fdrudg.f, equip_type.f, ../skdrut/ttape.f, 
    ../skdrut/check_rec_type.f, ../skdrut/unpvt.f 

