Release notes for drudg 9.8.2.  Date on opening is 060621. Solstice Day. 
1. Labels for Mark5 disk modules.
   NOTE: FORMAT OF THIS HAS CHANGED from 9.8.1.
   DRUDG now supports generation of media labels for disk modules.
   This is not available through the normal printing option (6). Instead
   it is accessed via the command line. The format is:
     drudg file.log VSN irow icol
   The only required argument is log file, file.log.  All the other
   arguments are optional. There default values are:
     VSN="ALL"
     irow=1
     icol=1
   If VSN<>ALL, then drudg  will only print the given VSN label. For example,
      drudg rd0507gc.log bkg-0060
   will only print the label for bkg-0060.

   If you want to position the paper to a place other than 1,1 you need to
   specify irow and icol.

    We recognize that it is not convenient to have to wait until the
    end of an experiment to generate the labels, especially when there
    are multiple disk module being used in an experiment.
    Unfortunately, for a variety of reason it is impossible a priori to
    predict the correct labels.  Even making a good guess in general
    requires burdensome data input and bookkeeping.  However to try to
    reduce the operational problems this may cause, DRUDG can print the
    label for just a specific disk pack.  The intent is that just
    before a disk pack is removed (usually because it is full) needs to
    be shipped) or when an experiment is over, the label for that pack
    for that experiment can be printed and attached.  To print only the
    label for a particular pack, enter the eight character VSN of the
    pack after the log. For example:

      drudg rd0507gc.log bkg-0060

    Label printing for Mark 5 modules is a new feature, (like all
    features) any feedback on how it works would be appreciated.

Procs changes/bug fixes.

2.  Bug fixes:
    a.) There was an error in generating the if3= command if
    neither vc3 or vc10 were defined. This was due to an unitialized
    variable, and has been fixed.
    b.) When checking Mark3 modes, checked against lower case
    letters, when should have checked against upper case letters.
    c.) setup_name subroutine had unintitialized variable in call
    to itras.

3.  Moved BBC and IFD command after form= command. This was
    done to add some extra delay so that the Mark5 firmware would
    work correctly.

4.  routine skdrut/itras.f was changed to use Mark4 track
    assignments. This required corresponding changes in procs.

5.  BBCs etc.  If the sky frequency is negative, proc assumes that
    the BBC is missing.  It will not issue BBC or IF commands
    for the corresponding BBCs and IFs. This change was made to
    make correlation easier.

Snap changes/bug fixes.
6.  Scan_name. Fixed scan name bug in snap. If two scans occured at
    the same time, was sometimes not appending the correct letter.
    Traced to not picking up the correct scan name.

7.  Scan_name. 2-letter station code is now inserted as the 3rd
    argument, viz: scan_name=126-1702,Gc,r1018,30

8.  Disk2file.  If no file is specified in the disk2file command,
    drudg creates a default filename of the form
    session_station_scanname.m5a,  e.g. n06c2_ef_No0002.m5a

9.  Disk2file.  You can now specify a disk2file script. This
    can be done by modifying the disk2file_script keyword in
    skedf.ctl, or interactively using the transfer override
    feature in drudg (option 15).










